0	yes , i do . thank you .
0	thank you .
0	chairman levin , ranking member coburn , uh and members of the subcommittee .
0	thank you for the invitation to appear before you today
0	as you examine some of the causes and consequences of the financial crisis .
1	today , the financial system is fragile , but it is largely stable .
1	this stability is a result of decisive and necessary government action during the fall of two thousand eight .
0	like other financial institutions , goldman sachs received an investment from the government as a part of its various efforts
0	to fortify our markets and the economy
0	during a very difficult time .
0	i want to express my gratitude and the gratitude of our entire firm .
0	we held the government 's investment for approximately eight months
0	and repaid it in full , along with a twenty three percent annualized return for taxpayers .
0	until recently , most americans had never heard of goldman sachs or were - or - were n't sure what it did .
0	we do n't have banking branches .
0	we provide very few mortgages and do n't issue credit cards or loans to consumers .
0	instead ,
0	we generally work with companies , governments , pension funds , mutual funds , and other investing institutions .
0	these clients usually come to goldman sachs for one or more of the following reasons .
0	they want financial advice , they need financing , they want to buy or sell a stock , bond , or other financial instrument ,
0	or they want help in managing and growing their financial assets .
0	the nearly thirty-five thousand people who work at goldman sachs , the majority of whom work in the united states ,
1	are hard working , diligent , and thoughtful .
0	through them , we help governments raise capital to fund schools and roads .
0	we advise companies and provide them funds to invest in their growth .
0	we work with pension funds , labor unions , and university endowments
0	to help build and secure their assets for generations to come .
0	and we connect buyers and sellers in the securities markets , contributing to the liquidity and vitality of our financial system .
1	these functions are important to economic growth and job creation .
0	i recognize , however , that many americans are skeptical about the contribution of investment banking to our economy
0	and understandably angry about how wall street contributed to the financial crisis .
0	as a firm , we are trying to deal with the implications of the crisis for ourselves and for the system .
0	what we and other banks , rating agencies , and regulators failed to do
1	was sound the alarm that there was too much lending and too much leverage in the system ,
1	that credit had become too cheap .
1	one consequence of the growth of the housing market was that instruments that pooled mortgages and their risk became overly complex .
1	that complexity and the fact that some instruments could n't be easily bought or sold
1	compounded the effects of the crisis .
1	while derivatives are an important tool to help companies and financial institutions manage their risk ,
1	we need more transparency for the public and regulators as well as safeguards in the system for their use .
0	that is why goldman sachs , in supporting trunc tory reform ,
0	has made it clear that it supports clearinghouses for eligible derivatives
0	and a higher capital requirements for non-standard instruments .
0	as you know , ten days ago , the s_e_c_ announced a civil action against goldman sachs in connection with a specific transaction .
1	it was one of the worst days of my professional life , as i know it was for every person at our firm .
1	we believe deeply in a culture that prizes teamwork ,
1	depends on honesty , and rewards saying no as much as saying yes .
1	we have been a client-centered firm for one hundred and forty years , and if our clients believe that we do n't deserve their trust ,
1	we can not survive .
1	while we strongly disagree with the s_e_c_s complaint ,
0	i also recognize how such a complicated transaction may look to many people .
1	to them , it is confirmation of how out of control they believe wall street has become ,
0	no matter how sophisticated the parties or what disclosures were made .
1	we have to do a better job of striking the balance between what an informed client believes is important to his or her investing goals
0	and what the public believes is overly complex and risky .
0	finally , mister chairman , the subcommittee is focused on the more specific issues revolving around the mortgage securitization market .
1	i think it is important to consider these issues in the context of risk management .
1	we believe that strong , conservative risk management is fundamental and helps define goldman sachs .
1	our risk management processes did not and could not provide for absolute clarity .
0	they highlighted uncertainty about evolving conditions in the housing market .
0	that uncertainty dictated our decision to attempt to reduce the firm 's overall risk .
1	much has been said about the supposedly massive short goldman sachs had on the u_s_ housing market .
0	the fact is , we were not consistently or significantly net short the market
0	in residential mortgage-related products in two thousand seven and two thousand eight .
0	our performance in our residential mortgage-related business confirms this .
0	during the two years of the financial crisis , while profitable overall ,
0	goldman sachs lost approximately one point two billion dollars from our activities in the residential housing market .
2	we did n't have a massive short against the housing market , and we certainly did not bet against our clients .
1	rather , we believe that we managed our risk as our shareholders and our regulators would expect .
0	mister chairman , thank you for the opportunity to address these issues . i look forward to your questions .
0	well , senator , that 's a - trunc there 's a lot in your question , and i 'm sure trunc we 're gon na spend a lot of time on - on a trunc uh a trunc uh different parts of it .
0	um ,
1	our clients ' trust -
1	is not only important to us , it 's essential to us .
1	it is why we 're as successful a firm as we are , and have been for a hundred and forty years .
1	we are
2	one of the largest client franchises in market making in these kinds of activities we 're talking now - about now , and our client base is a pretty critical -
1	client base for us . and they know our activities , and they understand what market making is .
2	again , i do n't know who the they is , and again -
2	no , i know . i - i know , senator , and
1	we trunc there were individual emails that were picked out and some people thought something . but i 'll tell you -
1	senator , i want to make one thing
1	trunc when you say we sell something and then our trunc customer bets against it -
2	we bet against it .
2	we are principals .
2	the - the act of selling something is what gives us the opposite position of what the client has .
0	if the client asks us for a bid and we buy it from them ,
2	the next minute , we own it . they do n't . if they ask to buy it from us ,
2	the next minute , they own it and we do n't .
2	we could cover that risk .
1	but the nature of the principal business and market making
0	is
1	that we are the other side
1	of what our clients
1	want to do .
2	not necessarily .
2	in the context of market making , that is not a conflict .
1	what we 're trunc what clients are buying , or customers are buying ,
1	is they 're buying an exposure .
0	the thing that we are selling to them
2	is supposed to give them
2	the risk they want .
2	they are not coming to us to represent what our views are .
2	they probably - the institutional clients we have , would n't care what our views are .
2	they should n't care .
1	we do other things at the firm . we 're advisors . we manage their money .
0	there are parts of the business and trunc where we are fiduciaries .
2	uh , not in the market context .
2	we do n't - i do n't think -
2	our clients care or they should care
2	you say betting against -
0	i know that these are -
1	you know , we live in different contexts and this is a professional -
1	this is a - a mark-
0	in a human context ,
1	the markets work
1	on transparency with respect to what the item is .
1	it does n't carry representations
0	just of what a position
0	a seller has .
0	just think of buying from the new york - from a stock exchange .
0	or a futures market .
2	you do n't even know - you 're not even supposed to know who 's on the other side .
0	you could have the biggest mutual fund in the world
0	selling all its position in something .
2	they could hate it . you would never know that if you were the buyer of a stock ,
2	who was selling it or why they were selling it .
2	liquidity in the market
2	demands transparency ,
1	that the thing is supposed to do what it 's supposed to do . the people who were coming to us
0	for risk in the housing market
1	wanted to have a security that gave them exposure to the housing market .
1	and that 's what they got .
1	the unfortunate thing -
1	and it 's unfortunate , but it does n't - is that the housing market
1	went south very quickly
0	after some of these securities - not all of them , because some of them were done early -
0	but they went , and so people lost money in it .
1	but the security itself delivered the specific exposure
1	that the client wanted to have .
1	yes . and the people who are selling it in our firm
1	would n't even know what the firm 's position is
0	and -
0	trunc senator , we have
0	thirty five thousand people and thousands of traders making markets throughout our firm .
1	they might have an idea ,
1	but they might not have an idea . and the next day it might be different .
1	i think they would -
0	again , as a hypothetical ?
2	well , then i do n't -
0	well -
0	well , senator -
1	i think there are a lot of opinions
1	about what a trunc how a security will perform against the market it is in .
1	i think that the investors that we 're dealing with ,
0	on the long side or on the short side ,
1	know what they want to acquire
1	and probably if they asked a - a sales person his or her opinion ,
1	that sales person owes a duty of honesty .
0	but otherwise , the sales person is representing what that security is and what that a trunc what the position in that security will accomplish .
0	and as far as whether something is a weak security or going bad ,
1	we are selling securities all the time
1	that are weak , that we ourselves do n't like . it is just a function of the price in the market .
1	i bet some of those securities , and i do n't know specifically
0	which are the subject of those comments
1	can be bought today for a willing buyer and a seller
1	at cents on the dollar .
1	as long as people know - i think there are people who are making rational decisions today
1	to buy trunc to buy securities
2	for pennies on the dollar because they think it will go up ,
2	and the sellers of those securities are happy to get the pennies because they think they 'll go down .
1	i think we - i think in those transactions
1	in which we underwrote -
1	i believe , and i 'm not looking at trunc and in fact i do n't - my understanding is
1	that that is disclosed , that we can trunc we can have a short or a long position in those securities .
2	senator , you keep using the word betting against -
2	if trunc if somebody bought -
2	as a market maker , if somebody ca n't -
2	i - i have to be able to -
2	that we 're not going to cover it in the market ?
2	no , i do n't think we would have to tell them . i do n't even know that we would know ourselves what we were going to do . even if we intended -
2	trunc uh , i do n't think - um , i do n't think we would , um - i - i do n't think we would
2	disclose that . and i do n't know - again , intention for a market maker
2	is a very
2	i do n't think so . i - um , i 'm trying - i 'm trying to answer it . or , for that matter ,
0	if a client came to us and asked us to buy something from him
0	and we intended to hold the long position ,
2	i do n't think we have an obligation of telling him what our intention is
2	to hold it .
2	in - in
2	no , it 's not . it 's the opposite side .
2	every trunc every transaction , senator - and this is - and - and i think it 's important -
2	and again , i am not trying to be resistant but we - to make sure we - your terminology -
2	we are -
2	when , as a market maker , we are buying from sellers and selling to buyers .
2	i - i do n't believe there is a disclosure obligation ,
2	but as a market maker ,
2	i 'm not sure how a market would work
2	if you - if it was premised on the assumption
2	that the other side of the market cared what your opinion was about the position they were taking .
2	i think we have to have a belief , and we do
2	have a belief that if somebody wants an exposure to housing -
2	senator , your trunc i - i - again - your - i ca n't endorse - i - i 'm sorry . i ca n't endorse your characterization .
2	i 'm not troubled by the fact that we market make as principal and that we 're the opposite - and - when somebody sells ,
2	they sell to us , or when they buy , they buy from us .
2	senator , as i - i - again -
2	senator , i think people
2	do trust us .
0	senator -
0	senator , we could do
0	a public issue
0	of an oil company
0	tomorrow , an i_p_o_ of an oil company that goes out and searches for oil .
2	it is not - when we sell that company ,
0	and as a underwriter , we make sure there 's due diligence because our obligations of an underwriter are disclosure and due diligence and that is very well established .
2	but we can trunc tell our investors ,
2	if they want an exposure to an oil company and they understand the risks
2	and we have - do a good job in diligence and we do all the disclosures that are required by
2	ourselves and all the trunc uh and all the regulators ,
2	we can sell that trunc uh that security
2	and we will not necessarily disclose
2	and wo n't even know , and the buyer wo n't care -
2	we could be negative on the equity market
2	and negative on the oil market !
2	it still wo n't matter to that buyer of the security .
2	um , i - i do n't - senator , i ca n't speak to what - uh - what people would care . i would say
2	that the obligations of a market maker
2	are to make sure your clients are suitable
2	and to make sure they understand it . but we are a part of a market process . we do
0	hundreds of thousands , if not millions of transactions a day as a market maker .
1	um , i think there was
1	a number of factors . i do n't know whether that was the initial factor , but that certainly was a major , major episode in the collapse .
1	correct .
1	uh , we - um , were - an investment was made into goldman sachs , yes .
1	i think we were part of a group of banks
0	that um -
0	that were frank - that were brought in -
0	and at the same time were - uh had an investment uh - made in - um - uh - by the uh government in order to stabilize
0	what was a -
1	maybe it 's too strong a word , maybe not - a panic of sorts ,
1	that - that caused a lack of confidence in -
0	trunc um -
0	uh if - uh trunc uh de minimis .
0	um -
1	i - i do n't know the exact number , but that would be in the ballpark .
0	um -
0	um , about uh nine million dollars .
0	um -
0	trunc financially , um -
0	uh ,
1	trunc yes .
1	i think there 's a , uh , the recession - um -
0	well -
1	whether or not the recession has ended , and i think most people believe it has ended ,
1	the consequences of it still grinds on and is creating a substantial hardship .
0	in residential - um , in this market , in residential housing ,
0	we made , for the entire year of two thousand seven ,
0	less than five hundred million dollars of revenue ,
0	and in the succeeding year of the housing crisis , two thousand eight ,
0	we lost one point seven billion dollars . we did not make -
1	uh , we did not make big money . what i was referring to in my email
0	was
0	that -
0	and this was on the back of a trunc of a message that was looking at a part of our business
0	and saying
0	they made a lot of money on shorts , when i knew
0	that we had
0	a lot of longs
0	and a lot of shorts that netted to very very small position , as our goal during this period was just to manage our risk down .
1	trunc absolutely . i think
0	um
1	community banks uh play a very very important role .
0	they are
0	not necessarily -
1	i trunc trunc again , not knowing in trunc i am not trunc in general or specifically . maybe some
1	helped author their own
1	situation by over-lending or making imprudent judgments .
1	but i 'm sure for many , they just conducted their social purpose and lent out money against housing ,
1	that people who owe them the money ca n't pay it back , and the housing that they would have as collateral goes down in value ,
1	they may very well be victims of the recession
1	and that 's - i can understand um ,
1	i can trunc uh uh trunc and i - and i share your uh , you know , your concern for the situation .
0	we have -
2	um , yes , we did , and i mentioned in my opening statement the disposition of that , the return ,
0	and the return with a high rate of return for the taxpayer ,
1	but we understand our obligations uh do n't end there .
1	we have always been a philanthropic organization .
1	we do n't
1	tend trunc again -
1	we sometimes are too - are - are invisible . but i would say in the last year ,
0	oh nine ,
0	we
2	allocated , and i do n't mean just accrued , we delivered
2	a billion dollars
2	of the firm 's funds to philanthropy , including five hundred million dollars
1	to a program to support small businesses
1	by giving education to small businesses through the medium and delivery mechanism of community colleges
0	uh and with a view to
1	providing finance for some of the graduates of the programs that we have for those small businessmen in order to make them trunc bigger businessmen
0	um , trunc and - and to involve our people with it .
0	this is -
1	trunc i 'm not trunc trunc you know - trunc are any of these things enough ? not for the suffering
1	existing in the world , but we are trunc again , we are trying to do our part .
1	we think in the main conduct of our business .
1	we are also doing important things for the capital markets , but we do take account
1	of communities and institutions that we normally do n't reach as goldman sachs .
0	uh , we may help find - i just do n't know .
0	a c_d_o -
1	i - i was gon na build to it .
0	um , sorry -
0	a trunc a c_d_o_
0	is a pool
0	of
0	assets , in this case ,
0	mortgage - mortgage assets , so mortgages
0	that are pooled together
0	and then can be sliced
0	in a way that will um yield a particular credit exposure . the reason why one would trunc want to pool mortgages
0	is it gives diversification ,
0	um , so that you can pool mortgages not from just one community , but distribute it over the whole country .
0	the reason why one would want to slice it
0	is so you could pick your place on the credit spectrum
0	and say , i 'd like the more senior mortgages . i 'd like the more junior risks .
0	a synthetic mortgage trunc trunc uh , in a synthetic ,
0	you do n't pool the actual mortgages per se .
0	you pool reference securities that are indexed to specific trunc uh pools of mortgages .
0	trunc you -
0	um .
0	yes , you 're doing it in a way to get a specific risk
0	in a specific place at a specific trunc uh level of the spectrum
0	without necessarily
0	having to assemble the particular securities , and so you can do it more quickly and you can do it more precisely .
1	well , i think the people who are participating
1	in the synthetic c_d_o_ market
1	are specifically trying to take
1	particular risks
1	with respect to the housing market ,
1	short or long ,
1	and presumably they want to take that to either initiate an - that exposure
1	or to use that exposure to help hedge themselves
1	or to adjust their risk profile , in the case of somebody who already has accumulated risk .
0	abacus . sir .
1	i think the trunc um -
1	i think the specific
1	complaint was trunc a lack of disclosure that a short -
1	someone who was taking the short side of the position had an influence
1	uh on the uh selection agent , and that that should have been disclosed .
1	um , we do n't think so , no , and that 's trunc that 's in dispute .
2	trunc uh - uh - you know , again , it 's complicated , because in the alternative , there 's also -
1	um and again , this is a case , and in the alternative - then - and there is also some - and again , this is a litigation and obviously one side thinks one thing and another side thinks trunc another -
1	there 's also a belief on our side that uh the selection agent did know .
1	i personally would not . the person , and he was here testifying , asserted that he believed um the other side of the transaction did know , and therein lies the factual - a factual dispute .
0	i 'm sorry , are we talking about the selection agent ?
1	i do n't think there 's a difference of opinion between the hedge fund client and goldman .
0	a rating agency , yes , rates a c_d_o_ .
2	senator , this may be a different point . this is not the subject of the um , of the legal proceeding .
1	to my - best of my knowledge .
0	good afternoon .
0	yes sir .
0	uh -
0	i would - we have focused more - we 've had trunc trunc focused more and more
0	in trading as a principal ,
1	but that is the trunc that is the way the client business has evolved , sir .
0	well -
1	i would say that , increasingly - and this is a change in the sociology of the business that took place
0	over the last
0	fifteen or twenty years .
1	i am not sure it was precipitated by the fall of glass-steagall
0	or
1	it caused glass-steagall to trunc uh to fall as u_s_ institutions had to become
1	more competitive with global institutions ,
0	but somewhere along the line ,
0	clients
0	used to ask you for advice and then went to - if you were an investment bank , and then went to other institutions
0	and asked them for financing .
0	and to take principal risk .
0	along - somewhere along the line ,
0	they stopped asking necessarily to do things for them , but to do things with them ,
0	in other words , to be the other side . and today in the world , and this evolved over a long period of time ,
2	to be effective
2	for your clients ,
2	you not only had to give them advice ,
1	but you had to have the financial wherewithal , in other words , the balance sheet ,
1	to be able to accomplish
1	their objectives , not just advise them on their objectives . and so goldman sachs
0	um , twelve or trunc uh twelve or thirteen years ago ,
0	actually
2	had to reverse many years of being a private partnership and become a public partnership -
0	public company ,
2	so we could be - so we could frankly , survive
2	uh , in the evolving world of needing to be a principal to accomplish our clients ' objectives .
2	no no - i - i know , senator , trunc and i know you 're not saying it negative , but
0	just for the history of it ,
0	it was
1	a very famously - uh it was a very
1	observed decision
1	by the world
1	of what goldman sachs was trunc uh doing ,
2	done very reluctantly -
0	not so much to - and the -
2	the real rationale for it was not because to make incremental profits . it was done in order
2	for us to survive as a leading financial institution . had we not done it , had we not grown ,
2	if we were not effective for our clients in order to allow them to accomplish those objectives ,
2	i do n't think - i - goldman sachs would be around ,
2	but it would n't be an important company today .
2	we were the last of the firms to do this .
0	the fact that we 're trunc in other words , when you say proprietary , it means that business that is totally separate from our client business ,
0	in which no
0	client is engaged .
2	no , i - i do n't think so . we keep those - when we do proprietary trading ,
2	it 's um , it 's separate .
0	uh -
2	separate , and separate people -
2	no no , i know you 're not . i 'm not -
1	i think there are a lot - i think
1	in our principal activities , which is more than our proprietary activities ,
0	for example ,
2	i think there is always that trunc there is always - we have to manage . i think um ,
2	david viniar said , we trunc always have to manage conflicts . because necessarily ,
0	if you 're a principal ,
1	you are trunc on the other side . i think our -
1	our proprietary
1	businesses actually have much less -
1	although the perception of it - um -
1	you know , obviously , if you 're asking the question , the perception of conflicts , but we keep those trunc uh very separate .
0	two thousand seven -
0	we sold um -
1	we sold - uh - we reduced our risk , which since the risk largely started out as long ,
0	it means we sold some of our long positions
0	and put on other short positions .
0	uh , i 'm sorry . you said that quickly .
2	yeah . i - i just do n't have any - i - i do n't have any knowledge of that -
1	i believe that we can have -
2	that some people can own the c_- look ,
1	on the first day , somebody could buy a c_d_o_ from us -
1	we could - we could sell trunc on the first day , we could sell more -
2	if people came to us for a market the day after we sold our whole inventory and wanted to buy it , we would short -
1	yeah , i ca n't answer - i - i 'm not - i know that we -
1	trunc i know that we reduced our risk
1	trunc uh as per the instruction .
1	the risk started out long . i ca n't - i just do n't know to what extent , to - how much was its selling length ,
1	which was some of it , for sure ,
0	selling certain securities ,
0	um -
1	shorting certain security , but i ca n't tell you , because some of it was , i think , the um , the future - the new
1	a_b_x_ index , also . i just do n't know .
1	but i know the -
2	i do n't .
2	but i - i 'm also - it -
0	to the extent you 're asking me about whether we were long or short a specific security ,
1	and in what proportion , i just do n't know .
2	i ca n't rule it out . i just do n't know .
0	that we were
0	short some -
2	again , i do n't - i - i - i trunc i - i do n't know . um .
0	if we have
0	pools of securities
0	in our inventory ,
0	and we have - and we are trying to get -
0	reduce our risk ,
0	we are going to
0	be
0	selling those ,
0	some
0	combination of selling those ,
0	selling indexes or selling other things short .
0	can i - can i trunc may i speak generally ?
0	not knowing about the specific trunc uh security ?
2	trunc the best way of reducing your risk
2	is to sell what you have .
0	sometimes - as you said , sometimes you ca n't because it 's illiquid . sometimes it 's -
0	or sometimes it 's unattractive . but sometimes what people are doing
1	is , gee , i 'm short this thing in this part of the capital structure ,
1	what i 'll do is i 'll sell something similar to it
2	but a little lower in quality because i think that will underperform relative to what i have . but that 's what they 're doing .
2	no , senator , i - i - i realize that ,
0	and -
0	you know we 're very much informed ,
1	and we would n't be here but for the fact
1	that there was such a collapse in the housing market .
0	um , to go back to that oil trunc analogy that i -
0	gave that uh -
0	that i gave you , if we were
0	sitting here and we had underwritten a trunc uh a new security -
0	like that ,
0	what i described to you , instead of trunc uh housing , and after we put it in the market ,
0	three months later ,
0	we were short that security in connection with our market making ,
1	that sounds okay .
0	but it was the same security that we had underwritten
0	may i ask a - i think you 're asking me
0	what we knew -
2	we did not -
2	we did not know
0	what -
2	what subsequently occurred
2	in the housing market -
2	we did not know -
2	we - by the way , we did n't behave like we knew it .
0	in other words there 's
0	emails going around where this one was trunc trunc this one was nervous and this one really - you know , i mean , we 're talking about relatively
1	junior people , managing positions on desks -
1	and then there are other emails
1	where people
1	were excited and thought the market would rebound .
2	we did not know
2	that the housing market was going trunc trunc was going to happen
2	like that .
2	and by the way , our positions reflect that
2	because had we known ,
2	we would have been
2	massively short the market instead of
2	just getting short -
0	um -
2	about equal to what our longs were , and maybe
2	i never did .
2	i do n't know that we - again ,
2	we are dealing with the same information . i think -
1	trunc trunc if tomorrow -
2	let me trunc
1	tomorrow -
2	i think
2	there needs to be a trunc you know , i - i think it would serve
2	the public interest for
2	a
1	securities market in housing - again , learning from the mistakes
1	revealed , in other words , if you assume with me
1	that we learned from all the mistakes , i think
1	securitizing
1	home -
1	mortgages
2	is not inherently a bad activity .
2	we never , uh ,
2	decided to get
2	uh - again -
1	to the best of my trunc again - and i 'm not close to that decision . there 's other people -
2	um , i do n't know that a decision was made to leave that business as opposed to reduce the risks of the business .
0	um -
2	when you tell -
2	when you tell me , get out of the business -
2	senator , i do n't - i do n't know if - i - i do n't know what trunc i - i -
0	senator , i heard your uh - your earlier trunc remarks , as well .
2	i think trunc i - i think we 're not that trunc we 're not that smart at - at -
2	and maybe there were people who knew - and , by the way , even the people who with hindsight knew it ,
2	i think they thought it , and then they turned out to be right .
2	i think -
2	i could tell you from my trunc my own self -
2	at twenty percent down in the housing market ,
2	i did n't know whether it would go down thirty percent
2	or rebound up ten percent .
2	even now - even now -
3	i know it -
2	trunc but now it -
2	senator , there were a lot of business judgments , and maybe - i wish i had known -
2	if you look - just look at all the big wall street firms
1	that lost tens of billions of dollars
2	even after this period , in oh eight .
2	holding on to these securities . i did not know -
2	all we know is the discipline of mark to market
2	and reducing our risk when the markets are nervous , and when p_-and-l_s are moving .
1	uh , yes . and - and to a greater extent than us in most cases .
1	uh , that is correct .
0	um ,
1	i did not .
1	i think
1	as i heard it
1	everything sounds
1	correct .
1	but when you say concerns - i mean , i 'm in the business - in my role , i will look deeply into everything that uh - that 's surfaced here . there 's - what - what 's going on in this hearing today
1	is , of course , fact finding for you ,
1	but it 's fact finding for everyone . so um , i - i - i heard nothing today
1	that makes me think anything
1	um went wrong . but i wo n't - i - i - you - you raised transactions that i never heard of before and i will have people look deeply into them .
0	i 'm sorry , what date ?
0	prior to september twenty first ?
1	um , we had , um -
1	we had - um , yes . we did n't - we -
1	did n't resolve to do it ,
1	but it was something that we were very -
1	uh very much looking -
1	uh - looking at .
1	yes , it was .
0	um -
1	there must be . i have n't trunc i 've never - i have n't reviewed the records .
1	sure .
2	and it was decided at that board meeting not to do it .
0	you mean outside -
0	you mean - would - not a bank holding -
1	i think um -
1	i trunc
1	i 'm not sure how trunc
1	you know , we 'll have to wait and see how the legislation unfolds . i really um - i 'm really not sure
1	and i 'll say it this way , how realistic
1	that will be . trunc if you - um - how realistic that will be . the reason why we were looking at it at the time
1	was it was hard to -
0	originally started with
0	a whole regime for investment banks
0	and then post-
0	bear stearns
1	and certainly post-lehman , i think there was , uh , you know , at that point , it was clear there was not going to be a whole regime
0	for -
1	for the classical investment bank at that point , because there were n't that - there were n't uh - there were n't that many .
2	i 'm not sure . i think trunc i - i think possibly . i 'm not - i 'm just not sure .
1	it would make sense to me , but i 'm just not sure . um , i know there were a lot of facilities that were in place
1	already , and i 'm not sure , um -
1	i 'm just not trunc i 'm just not sure .
1	um , there are people - other people - even people here who might know that answer better than me . i 'd - i 'd - i know that we had access
0	to certain funding facilities .
1	i not sure it was the discount window per se . i do n't think so , but i 'm not sure .
*	yes , sir .
0	to the best of my belief , other than to test it
0	shortly after um
0	we became it , just to see if it would work ,
0	i would say -
1	i would say no . but i - as - as you 'll notice , i am looking for uh -
1	and i feel much better having gotten it .
1	um , i think trunc well , first of all , some aspects of the bill , i think , have morphed over the last - maybe even over the last few days . i 'm just not sure bec-
0	i see .
1	right .
1	i 'm generally supportive , uh and to be sure , there are details of it that i think
1	i 'm less sure of . but i think , on the whole , financial reform is trunc you know , is essential , and
0	i will say that um ,
0	last week i - uh , in new york , i listened to a speech by a barack obama at wall street , and one of the points he made
1	um resonated with me because i 'd said it myself .
1	he said that the trunc the biggest beneficiaries of reform
1	will be wall street itself ,
1	because proper reform will make the markets safer , and the trunc uh and then i 'll add my own piece , the biggest risks
1	that financial institutions have are with each other .
0	and so to the extent that that 's all made safer , um , i think we 'll - they - the -
1	america will be a big beneficiary , but specifically um , uh , we will , as well .
2	you know , sir , i - i am not - in - in - you know -
2	i think you - i - i should give a qualification to my -
2	there are parts of that bill
2	that we will - that affect us
2	and that we have particular expertise and experience in ,
2	and that 's really i - what i was addressing .
2	there are other big parts of that bill
2	that are just remote from our experience .
2	how it affects community banks , how it affects mortgage originators , since we 're only in that business in a de minimis way ,
2	and how it affects consumer banks , consumer legislation being a major part of it ,
2	is really remote from our experience because we do n't engage in those activities . so i 'm - i should give you that qualification .
2	i think -
2	i ca n't speak to the qualifications or standards
2	of fannie mae or freddie mac .
2	i can say that they were
2	an instrument of policy
2	to uh - to attract
2	more money into home ownership . which is - i 'm not trunc suggesting that 's - i mean - uh but that 's - that 's what they accomplished .
1	yes .
1	i would say there are two ,
1	and there may be a lot more , but coming to mind ,
1	there are two big policy
0	um -
1	facts that tend to trunc draw more money into housing -
1	um , at least two ,
1	one of which is that through the government-sponsor - sponsored entities ,
2	money - the government would in a trunc in a - trunc
2	trunc trunc implicitly -
2	those entities were able to draw in money because they were perceived to be quasi-government credits . that 's one . and the other is , of course , um ,
2	the fact that the tax code allows you to deduct um mortgage interest . and so those two
2	things would cause - would favor um uh , more money , all other things being equal , to flow into those sectors .
0	oh , i um -
2	since the beginning ? uh , not um -
1	i might have .
0	um -
1	trunc um , i might have , but they were - they would be at a very uh general and high level , not specific . uh oh -
1	frankly , along the lines in which i 'm trunc uh trunc trunc to the same way i 'm talking about it to you .
0	um , i call ,
1	you know as part of what i do , trunc uh in my role ,
1	i try to see um senior people in treasury and at the white house and in um - frankly , in the legislature ,
1	and introduce myself , talk trunc you know offer to discuss things on their mind and
1	offer them things , if they 're interested in hearing it , on my mind . but they are generally - um , i - i - but i was n't involved in any kind of roll-up-your-sleeve effort on specific points .
1	sure .
0	well ,
2	i think for sure
2	we need the apparatus -
0	could trunc very well be the apparatus proposed for systemic risk
0	regulation and observing systems and people who can look
0	in a trunc uh across
0	all the different institutions and potential sources of systemic risk .
0	um ,
0	sec-
2	trunc i think that 's very important . secondly ,
2	and i think possibly the most important thing that 's being discussed ,
2	is to recognize that despite every good intention , despite trying to see around every corner , you just will miss stuff ,
2	and to make sure that the system is better able to absorb
2	the consequence of missing something . and so making financial institutions , including institutions like ourselves ,
2	have appropriate levels of capital and liquidity , which by and large means more of both .
1	you might limit our leverage ratio . you might have us have
1	certain kinds of contingent securities ,
1	which
0	cause people to have to give us money at times we need it . there are a number of proposals out to do it ,
1	but in general , the system would be made safer
1	if financial institutions had more capital .
1	there is , of course , a cost for this , because to the extent that you have more capital
1	and lower leverage ,
2	loans will be more expensive . there will be less credit granted , but that is a tradeoff that after the experience of the last few years ,
0	policy makers may well be interested in making , and it is a question of degree that -
1	and i think at least a third level ,
1	of thing - after you try to avoid all the problems and after you try to have more capital to absorb the problems ,
1	you have to have a resolution authority to make sure if number one and number two do n't work ,
1	that an individual institution that was poorly run or undercapitalized
1	does n't um - does n't bring down the system ,
2	and so um , and make it so no institution should be too big to fail
2	or have to burden the public with the cost of its um - of its uh - failure or being saved .
0	um , my -
2	you know , i ca n't um , i ca n't um , answer your question . my experience with the f_d_i_c_ ,
2	while limited , because as we started out in the beginning of this conversation , we 've only been a bank
2	for a short period of time ,
0	um , has been um ,
2	you know , makes me respect them quite - you know , to quite a trunc great degree ,
0	but it 's been in connection with their existing functions .
1	yes .
1	i 'm not trunc i 'm not sure of the interaction of that .
2	senator , one thing i would say -
2	again , these - uh again i - i - uh , i - i 'll be - i do n't know how that interacts , and i do n't know the rules , and i do n't know how they 'll be applied
2	in the details of the regulations , and the devil , of course , is always in the details -
2	i said we support the direction of the bill , and i trunc um -
2	but with respect to this , i think it 's very important for goldman sachs ,
2	and i think it 's very important for taxpayers - but uh - but let me come back and say the first - it 's important for goldman sachs
2	that we take away the notion - it 's is a very big burden
2	on us
2	if people think
2	we 're too big to fail . we do n't think we 're too big to fail .
2	we do n't wan na be too big to fail .
2	but a lot of the negativity
2	that 's associated with us
2	is because people think we 're getting the benefit of being too big to fail ,
2	and i trunc and i do n't think it 's good for the country or for us to be in that place .
1	yes .
1	um , certainly at that time , um , uh , the answer is , yes , at that time . at that time ,
1	even a small
1	institution might have been too big to fail , just because of the fragility .
1	there was so much tinder -
2	i thought - i - i - i thought of that -
2	i thought of that .
2	i do n't think that that would be a good idea , and i 'm - and i 'm speaking , senator , from a position
2	of even - trunc of not being
2	really one of those big banks . in other words , our balance sheet of something over eight hundred billion dollars ,
2	i think is about a third or forty percent of where the big banks are . so even though we are a big investment bank ,
2	because we do n't do all those , we 're not as big as those - we 're not - we 're not as big as those and do n't have the balance sheet .
2	but notwithstanding that we 're one of the trunc you know , the smaller ones , i would say
2	obviously , if someone is going to get to that position of failing , the fact that they 're big
2	makes it worse .
2	but the fact that banks are bigger and more diverse and more activities in more places in the world
2	probably makes them safer .
2	and secondly ,
2	when you think of the big financing purposes in the world and what the u_s_ needs to trunc to maintain its competitiveness ,
2	having financial institutions too small
2	to conduct financing and a competitive basis as the rest of the world , i think will be
0	a um -
1	will be a uh competitive disadvantage , uh , to the united states .
1	yes , sir .
1	i do , sir .
2	you know , i was n't -
2	uh i was n't close to the decision ,
2	but uh can i - can i give you - um - but i think -
2	i trunc i was n't specific about that , but i think what we -
2	we 've been trunc we wanted to get , and i was n't thinking about that because we also put -
0	we also
0	provided some information
0	from emails with respect to the business and
0	these - there were elements here
1	that were - spoke badly of the firm
2	and we just wanted to come abreast
2	of all the issues about which were bad to the firm . there was nothing in anything , to my understanding ,
0	about mister tourre 's subsequent emails
0	that were n't evidenced by the emails that had already been out .
1	and so i did n't think we were adding anything to distract -
1	senator , um , i do n't know
1	what it was , but there were emails that were extant
0	and -
1	trunc uh again , this is all to the best of my knowledge -
1	and i think what we - and i think - and i think what we wanted to do -
1	and not - with respect to
1	some of the issues
1	was to just
1	get trunc get it out , so that we could deal with it . because at this point , you want - um - and i think you are aware that the press
0	was just
2	very - and maybe the press trunc i - i do n't - i do n't know where they came from , but i do n't think we added ,
2	to the best of my knowledge , but i do n't know , i do n't think we added to the state of knowledge about those emails which um ,
2	which our employee addressed , and i think needed to address .
0	thank you , senator .
0	uh , i must - could you give me the number again ? i 'm -
0	i 'm sorry . i apologize .
2	senator , i - i - i - i - i do n't know whether -
2	i 'm reading the words . i do n't know
2	who these - uh , who these people are . it sounds like ,
1	just looking at it , it sounds like
1	somebody is complaining
1	and asking - recommending that we not do
1	some of these - trunc most - some of things , from what i can see on this page .
1	but i do n't know whether any of this was -
2	i do n't know who these people are ,
2	and i do n't know whether any of this was done . i just -
0	are you saying that we - we did these ?
1	i think -
2	there better have been . i think we are uh trunc we are supposed to analyze uh and do due diligence with respect to
0	um - in - in securities and instruments that are created .
1	i do n't know specifically about uh , long beach . i know we have ,
1	in all our businesses , due diligence processes um that are um -
2	that are um - you know , that are appropriate uh trunc for the business . so ,
2	i 'd say as a matter of process ,
1	i would assume appropriate due diligence was done on it , uh based on our - you know , based on our standards and our , you know , protocols .
2	trunc okay . i 'm not trunc i 'm not sure whether an instrument was created out of this , but i - i get the point and will look for it .
1	um , given that things did n't work out well ,
1	in hindsight -
0	sorry .
2	in trunc hindsight i wish um we had trunc i wish we had done more .
2	i think we
2	thought at the time , and again ,
2	i do n't have contemporaneous knowledge of it and i 'm not an expert on - on - on that area .
2	um , i believe we um , believed we were doing appropriate due diligence and appropriate disclosure .
2	things um - uh you know - things went
2	much further
2	and got much worse
2	um than people uh - people realized .
2	i do n't know that we would have - i do n't know -
2	i wish we had done - i - i do n't know what due diligence trunc would have picked that up , but i wish we had done more to get there .
0	um ,
2	i do n't think so .
1	uh i do n't - i do n't know . i 'm not sure .
1	i 'm thinking in terms of risk . i 'm not trunc i 'm not sure they were equity residual -
2	i 'm - i 'm not - i 'm not sure . i - i do n't - i do n't know that i had formed trunc uh a view of equity residual positions , per se .
0	i got to the page .
0	um .
2	i do n't remember uh typing this , but i could tell you clearly what i - how i use those words and what i mean .
2	um i hope i have this right , but when i use the expression cats and dogs , i mean miscellaneous stuff .
1	is - i hope everybody thinks of it that way . that 's what i - that 's how i use the words .
2	um , and i 'm referring - this is just my normal rant about aged inventory . just as a trunc a matter of risk management .
2	when somebody tells me they 're losing money on old stuff ,
2	my reaction is ,
2	why do you - ? you know , part of the discipline of our business
2	is to manage risk
2	and sell inventory , and so here , i 'm not even thinking about
2	the particular asset class he 's talking about . i 'm saying , could should we have cleaned up these books ? in other words , i 'm yelling at him .
2	before , and are we doing enough right now to sell off cats and dogs in other books throughout the division ? i 'm basically saying
2	that you 're head of the division . you 're supposed to be managing
2	um um an aged trunc you know we have something called aged inventory , which is just as a matter of discipline ,
1	um let 's not accumulate residuals , parts of other deals . sometimes
0	you have little pieces left over , but those little pieces , if you do n't pay trunc they 're not big enough to pay attention to ,
1	but in the aggregate can hurt you . so i 'm saying ,
1	you know , i 'm just being -
2	senator , it would n't matter to me one bit .
2	if we had risk on our book , it would n't matter to me
2	whether it was there for a long time or a short time .
2	risk is risk .
1	and i would want them - i would want trunc if we would ask people to manage their risk down ,
2	they would manage their risk down . by the way , i found , you know , on the front page - i 'm - i - i 'm sure i did n't look at this whole -
0	the fellow who wrote to me said ,
0	most of the risk is in old residual positions from trunc trunc trunc deals done over the last few years ,
0	and that 's what i was responding to .
2	in other words , a person - it 's trunc it 's undisciplined
2	to hold stuff because it 's small
2	for years . it just is probably because it was too small to pay attention to , and that 's not uh the way you 're supposed to be .
2	uh , referring to most of the risk is an old residual position . anyway , that 's what i think i was saying .
1	um - i - i - you know , i 'm not trunc i have n't heard about or involved in it .
2	and i mean i 'm sure there is . um , but -
2	but if there 's somebody who trunc and if - uh if there 's somebody whose business
2	depends
2	on -
1	would be able to do their business better
2	if they were able to hedge or eliminate
2	a financial risk ,
2	and they came to us and asked us to eliminate that risk , and it was a legitimate , proper , and honest and
2	susceptible to being understood ,
2	i think we would - they would come to us and ask to do it . you know ,
2	trunc i ca n't say what mister paulson is speaking , but there 's nothing wrong
2	trunc if he was , which i do n't know what he was thinking , if he was just a speculator ,
2	there are people who speculate in corn and speculate in
2	all sorts of commodities
2	that allow
2	the professional users of those markets
2	to complete their hedges .
2	that 's a socially
2	acceptable -
2	you know , trunc every futures contract -
2	on oil or anything consists of - you could characterize it as a bet ,
2	but not the underlying trunc commodity . some of these things just do n't even settle in physical form , but they provide the liquidity
2	and the opportunity for people who want to hedge themselves
2	to get in and take that position .
0	i 'm sorry , that what was n't a big deal ?
0	well -
0	senator , on these transactions ,
2	i know there - and i feel it . i know there is a inherent
2	distaste
2	for the short side of things as opposed to the long side of things . but for every transaction , there 's a buyer and a seller
2	and there 's nothing immoral
2	about somebody structuring a position - and by the way , some of the people who are going -
2	taking the short position may just be wanting to trunc uh restructure their portfolios , as well .
2	i do .
2	in that transaction , a_c_a_ , the selection agent ,
2	i think was the buyer
2	itself
2	of something like eighty or ninety percent of the transaction .
2	the biggest buyer , the biggest long
2	in that whole transaction
2	was a_c_a_ itself . i think it took a position
2	of a total deal of between one and trunc around one point one billion dollars .
2	i think it took over nine hundred million dollars of the transaction itself .
2	so the biggest buyer of that transaction
2	was very well represented . it was the selection agent itself .
2	the selection agent had done - had
2	engaged in a lot of these portfolios and was one of the biggest portfolio managers
2	in that asset class .
2	you know , when we talk about investors and deals , it sounds like
2	this is a broad distribution .
2	there was only
2	three professional investors engaged in the whole transaction .
1	this was -
2	in effect , there was no transaction -
2	this was not a transaction that had to be done ,
2	this was a transaction that only worked
2	if the longs and the shorts agreed on what the portfolio was .
2	and i realize that that 's not intuitive , but
2	that - those professional investors wanted those exposures .
1	uh , in retrospect , um they were uh inaccurate .
1	i think they never anticipated
1	that the market could fall as much as the market fell .
0	again ,
1	this is not contemporaneous knowledge . this is not anything in depth . i know about the -
1	i mean , i read articles , too , but it just - and that - and that 's where i get
1	some of this from . but it just
1	seems that they um
1	never trunc they - they never worked into their models
1	the kind of move
1	that occurred uh in the market .
0	um , and -
1	and that 's - you know , i think that 's why they did n't work .
1	um , i do n't know . the first panel uh that you had today
0	um ,
0	is - included people who
0	execute deals and uh - in connection with obtain ratings . in my entire career at goldman sachs ,
1	i never dealt directly with a rating agency other
0	than with the rating of goldman sachs .
2	and i 've been very trunc
2	and they - and -
2	they 've been very -
2	i 've not - i 'm not sure that i 've been able to influence them .
0	sivs ?
0	trunc siv . yeah , okay , i 'm sorry .
1	uh , i 'm not sure .
1	i 'm not sure that we do .
1	uh , i - i - i 'm not sure . i think some deal trusts may be -
1	i - i 'm just - i - i - i 'm just not sure . i do - i could tell you
1	that as a matter of our policy ,
2	we mark to market
2	all the risks of the firm ,
1	whether they are on balance sheet or off balance sheet , so there would be no
0	p_ and l_ consequence to us -
2	i - i - i - i ca n't -
2	i -
2	i do n't know .
0	again , uh well , you obviously know i was n't there .
0	but ,
1	um , i think
0	our person um who testified in the first trunc uh panel , um fabrice tourre ,
1	maintained that he believed um that they did know ,
2	and i think that - look , some of these things , it 's not a question of - you - you give me license in the sense that i - you know i was n't there and i do n't know . i 'm doing the best i can , so -
1	um i think
1	there um -
1	there 's a lot of
1	elements of the transaction and reputations and things that suggest
2	they should know and must have known , and then there 's also a lot of opinions that are floating out in which some people say they did know .
1	but i think that trunc it 's not a question of
2	not wanting to tell you . i ca n't tell you more . i know that one of the contested facts
2	in the case
2	is whether um
2	the - uh the - uh the selection agent knew or did n't know .
2	i do n't -
2	i 'm - i - again ,
2	you know i 'm trunc i 'm not trunc i - i 'm not sure . in other words , the trunc the legal -
2	the complaint
2	is whether
2	the -
2	i mean , trunc at least part of the complaint is whether the influence
2	had
2	an undue - uh of the - of that person had an undue effect . i do n't think there would be trunc i 'm not sure that anybody - there 's any duty on us
2	to disclose
2	the existence of that
2	short position .
2	this is a synthetic , so there had to have been a short position . if it was n't them , it would be us .
2	so there - everybody in the transaction knew , to the extent there was a long , there had to have been a short .
2	the issue is not whether there was a short and whether we were disclosing it . it just has to be a short .
2	the question was , did that short
2	have undue influence
2	on the placement trunc on the placement trunc on the selection agent ,
2	and then you get to the situation where
2	our person says - thinks - believes they knew .
2	i think
2	paulson you know may have - you know , person may have been quoted as having an opinion on that .
2	and then there 's the issue with - with , well ,
2	how could you not know ?
2	kind of element to it . so you get a factual thing , and obviously it 's a legal case ,
2	so there are people on one side and people on the other , and i do n't want to diminish it , but
2	that 's the best - that 's the best i can do . that 's what they 're - that 's what the - the case is .
2	that 's the factual issue over which the case is .
1	again , i 'm doing -
2	i 'll do the best i can ,
1	knowing - not knowing trunc any of these facts firsthand .
1	but one of the facts , and i think it 's on the - uh in the s_e_c_s complaint ,
0	was that
0	the portfolio that was initially proposed ,
0	um in which um
0	the hedge fund
1	at least participated , and maybe , for all i know , gave all - i - uh i 'm not sure , maybe proposed all the names -
0	more than half those securities
0	were thrown out
2	by the selection agent . now , in throwing out more than half ,
2	they 're obviously looking and making a judgment
2	about all of them .
2	they just turned back
2	more than half of them , but that does n't mean they only looked at that half . they looked at all of them and asked that more than half of them
2	be eliminated .
0	then
2	paulson , i guess , proposed others . some of those were accepted . some of those were turned back .
2	and then i_k_b_ and the - also proposed , i think , some .
2	so there was a healthy back and forth over -
2	so it looks
2	like they were - and so every decision that was made ,
2	people may have been - you know , there 's no deal unless the long and the short agree to it .
2	so , there was no doubt ,
2	no doubt because it 's part of the record there was conversations between them , but whether
2	the selection agent
2	that had the responsibility and duty to pick that portfolio picked that portfolio . they did .
2	that 's our - that 's our point of view . the s_e_c_ , i think ,
2	um has its point of view . now , i hope i 'm doing a good job representing both sides of this because i 'm really - i 'm trying to be
2	uh cooperative and not resort - uh and not not answering , but that 's - that 's my best understanding that i - that i have .
2	well , on the basis of what - that 's consistent with what i just said , and that 's consistent , in my view , that they did
1	uh select the um -
2	um the portfolio . we have an independent auditor .
2	it does n't mean we do n't interact with them .
2	it does n't mean that we do n't give them our views if they have an trunc if they have an opinion of how they should treat an accounting trunc item at goldman sachs . but at the end of the day , they 're the independent auditor and they make the judgment . y
0	um .
2	i - i - i do n't know , but i 'm - uh if there 's a disclosure
1	uh , document , which i assume there is - i mean , there were disclosure materials , yes .
0	there are disclosure materials , yes .
2	listen , i think the financial reform
2	is a good step -
2	that we 're working on . uh , you know , there 'll be -
0	there 's
2	gives and takes in it , and i 'm not sure myself where it would -
2	nobody is . where it would uh - where it would come out , so they trunc need for reform . i mentioned earlier
2	the need for higher capital standards , systemic you know risk
1	uh regulation . um ,
1	that 's trunc that 's general . and obviously every firm
2	needs to manage its risks
2	very well and better than they have been doing trunc in most cases .
2	and i think in our case , particularly , you have to look also through
1	every aspect of your business practices
1	to make sure , uh and - and to not be defensive , which there 's a tendency to be , but to learn from
1	prior um - you know , trunc prior situations , including the one we are in now , and make sure that you trunc you do a better job .
2	senator , there 's not - even as i 'm explaining what we did and why i thought
2	it was adequate at the time ,
2	there is not a thing that will arise
2	here and elsewhere
2	that wo n't be the subject of some big soul search and some tightening up
1	um of some trunc of standards .
2	we are -
0	we
0	have a
0	high level committee in our firm
0	going over every - we call it business practices committee ,
0	chaired by uh - our - our senior - uh our vice chairman , one of our named executive officers , that involve
0	the seniormost people in the firm ,
0	and
0	it is not with reference to legal requirements , law , whether we can win a lawsuit or lose a lawsuit , what happened , what were the standards of the day were ,
0	and we are going to trunc we are
1	going over everything . now , we always do things - you know , it 's a little bit - you know , it 's like painting a bridge . you get to the end of the bridge , you go back , and you paint uh beginning because things are evolving .
0	but ,
0	if
1	you know , we have to - everybody has to tighten up and ratchet um their standards up
1	and learn um - learn from these - trunc these elements . you asked me - you were just talking about
0	the standards
0	in that particular transaction that 's the subject of the lawsuit .
0	um .
0	we may - we have the trunc trunc we have the position that we do , and we believe everything is adequate , but
1	given the criticism that we 're going under and given the position that the s_e_c_ has taken with our trunc with our duties ,
2	we would n't do it trunc you know , guess what .
2	we - we - we could trunc we would tighten that up now . of course , everything that 's been the subject of criticism uh will be tightened up .
0	i do n't know them well , but i know that i 've heard of the company , of course .
1	yes .
1	i think the industry is substantially less leveraged .
1	and trunc i 'll tell you , we thought we were n't leveraged going into the crisis ,
1	um , as much - and we were n't , as much as other trunc other investment banks like ourselves .
2	with the benefit of hindsight , we were too leveraged . even at what we thought at the time ,
1	uh was fine , and we 're substantially - we 're less than half as leveraged
1	as we were then .
2	um , the recency of this crisis
2	is going to reverberate with me
2	for the rest of my career and my life . so i will be - uh , you know - uh ,
1	the - the image of it and the fear and the anxiety that we all had . and so
1	i agree , uh i think the firm - uh all firms will be run
1	much more um ,
1	you know - you know , much more conservatively , and i hope for a long time . and i tell you
1	that society will not rely on the good will and the memory of financial firms . i think trunc uh , i think
1	congress and regulators will impose
1	um tighter - um uh higher capital requirements and liquidity trunc requirements ,
1	and i think that 's appropriate , because
1	as we also found out in the crisis ,
1	we all
1	have um - we all have interrelated
1	obligations to each other .
1	and it trunc would n't suit me to be - to have goldman sachs be conservative , if everybody else was going to take too much risk and put the system at risk ,
1	which is why , again , i echo
1	making the world safer .
1	and ending too big to fail , i think , is something um that is a substantial interest of society at large and also of the industry and goldman sachs .
