2	thank you , mister blankfein , for being here . uh , i have to disagree a little bit with senator kaufman .
0	uh
1	i think ninety percent of the problems associated with the meltdown in our mortgage
1	system and the financial
1	crisis sits on the lap of congress .
1	um , and uh , i 've been adamant in my view on that because you ca n't record the last time we had a
1	oversight hearing until the problems came up . we do n't do oversight in advance to see whether things are working .
0	having said that , trunc i have a few questions for you , mister blankfein .
0	the activities that you and your employees have been called here today to testify about , is it your understanding that your competitors were engaged in similar activities ?
2	some of them are n't here anymore , are they ?
0	alright .
0	did you at any time have concerns - legal , trunc ethical , or reputational , about any of the activities undertaken by goldman employees about which we have heard today ?
2	so you 've not heard anything today
2	that has concerned you
2	about actions or statements
1	by trunc goldman or former goldman employees ?
0	all right . thank you .
1	on sunday , september twenty first , you made the following public statement about goldman sachs -
0	sunday , september twenty first , two thousand eight .
0	about goldman sachs becoming a bank holding company .
0	while accelerated by market sentiment , our decision to be regulated by the federal reserve
0	is based on recognition that such regulation provides its members with full prudential supervision and access to permanent liquidity and funding .
0	we believe that goldman sachs , under federal reserve supervision , will be regarded as an even more secure institution
0	with an exceptionally clean balance sheet
0	and a greater diversity of funding sources .
0	prior to september trunc two thousand eight , did you or anyone at goldman sachs have plans to convert the trunc trunc firm to a bank holding company ?
0	yes .
0	was this something that was discussed at a board meeting ?
0	all right . and there are records of that board meeting ?
1	would you have your staff provide that to us ?
1	if you would , please .
0	um .
0	yeah .
0	trunc looking back and today , would you rather be an investment bank ?
0	be under the federal reserve today ?
0	for the - the classical investment bank .
1	i - i think when you - in your september twenty first , two thousand eight statement , you talked about access to permanent liquidity and a greater diversity of funding sources .
0	were you , in fact , referring to goldman sachs would be able to obtain access to the discount window at the federal reserve ?
0	well , that - that - that would make sense to you ?
0	right .
0	let - let me ask a follow-up question . prior to september twenty second , two thousand eight ,
0	is it accurate to say that goldman sachs had temporary access to the discount window ?
0	all right .
2	um , well , that - that 'd be something that i 'd - we 'd be - i 'd be interested in having -
2	whether you did or did n't . uh -
0	have you since becoming a bank holding company accessed the discount window ?
2	i understand . that 's - that 's fair .
1	let - let me ask you a few trunc questions about the bill um that 's being proposed .
1	your executive vice president and chief financial officer said you embrace it . you trunc generally supportive of the dodd bill .
0	um .
1	you 've been fairly high profile in your support for it .
0	do you still maintain that support for this bill ?
0	do you think it solves the problems that are - that caused the problems that we got into ?
2	i do n't think so . the vote trunc
2	was turned down again . i do n't think we 've gotten there .
0	trunc what do you think will happen to loan origination ? uh , uh from the community banks , smaller regional banks , if they 're required to
0	maintain five percent of every mortgage that they write ?
0	what do you think 's gon na happen to mortgage volume ? let 's say the housing industry comes back .
0	you think the small banks are going to be writing mortgages anymore in the future ?
0	right .
1	do you have any thoughts on the fact that this bill does n't address
1	underlying core problems
1	like fannie mae and freddie mac ?
2	i mean , you would agree that there was an incentive to make loans
2	trunc through the trunc implicit guarantee of the federal government to people were less qualified
0	uh than what we had seen prior to the onset of fannie mae and freddie mac .
2	but you - but you would agree with an implicit federal guarantee on a mortgage ,
2	that would make it more available to more people ,
2	because the cost of capital would go down , because of an implicit federal guarantee behind it ?
0	um , have you personally spoken with anybody at treasury about the regulatory reform effort ?
0	have you had - ? let me place it -
1	let me - let me trunc rephrase the question .
0	have you in the last six to nine months had conversations with people at treasury about the regulatory reform effort ?
0	all right .
1	that 's fair .
0	uh , do you know who you talked to ?
1	let - let me change - change course for a minute . and i - i just really want to pick your brain and your judgment .
0	systemic risk ,
0	and the fact that it was there ,
1	created the necessary program for us to eliminate that systemic risk .
1	the option in the dodd bill is to tax you so that we can have a fund ,
2	uh , and i have real problems with how that fund is managed , but the idea is , is so that the government does n't ever loan it again ,
2	i_e_ , the taxpayer , but , in fact , the taxpayer will , because if you 're taxed , it 's going to cost more to the people you do business with .
0	so , what are the other ways to handle systemic risk , in your opinion ,
2	that are different than creating a taxpayer-funded fund , again ,
0	that would limit this country 's exposure to significant - significant systemic risk ,
1	knowing that as we lessen that risk , we probably also lessen some of our competitive capability worldwide in terms of financial and capital markets ?
0	which means we - we - we would trunc limit your leverage ratio to ten to twelve ?
0	yeah .
1	well , it 's about a ten trillion dollar cost of what we 've absorbed already , so -
1	that may - that may be cheap in comparison to what we 've - we 've -
1	we 've swallowed
2	which brings to mind , do you think that the f_d_i_c_ presently has the capable staff that would be able to come in and run goldman sachs if you got into trouble ?
2	the answer to that is absolutely no .
2	nobody is going to believe they have the capability to do that . but that 's what we 're setting up in this bill .
2	we 're going to give them broad power
2	to come in . they 'll pick winners and losers . they 'll make the decisions . they have none of the expertise to do that , but that 's who we 're going to put this with .
2	yeah , but their existing functions is they take over and immediately sell the assets and they do n't run things .
0	correct ?
2	and this bill is going to have them running things .
2	uh , big difference .
2	and while there 's no question they do a good job when they close and sell the assets and open it up on trunc close it on friday and open it on monday .
2	but they 're trunc there 's experienced people in the banking business that are making the decisions on that , not f_d_i_c_ .
2	and they have nobody near the capability of people inside goldman to take over goldman and run it ,
2	yet that 's what we are writing into a bill . and you think that 's a wise position ?
3	no , the interaction is is we are gon na give a federal bureaucracy the ability - who 's never had any experience - to come in and run a company like goldman sachs , one of the most sophisticated financial institutions the world 's ever known ,
3	they have no experience , no knowledge with how to do that , and we 're going to write trunc law
3	and then they 're gon na write regulations that they 're gon na be able to do that , if you become too big to fail or you become a systemic risk for the rest of the financial institution . you -
3	you all embrace that ?
3	i mean , that 's totally different than anything we 've heard from goldman sachs ' business philosophy here today and what we 've studied .
2	but yet you all embrace the bill ?
2	well , trunc you - you would agree that seven hundred billion dollars got allocated of taxpayer money to solve systemic risk problems , of which you were the beneficiary
2	both directly and indirectly of a portion of that .
2	so , somebody thought you were too big to fail .
0	yeah .
2	yeah , trunc that 's a legitimate point . i 'd - i 'd answer that . what about the idea of taking the six largest banks and making -
2	uh , that do similar things to you and making them into sixty ?
2	with specialization over here , and this over here , where trunc where trunc divide up
2	systemic risk so we do n't have systemic risk ?
2	you do n't do the commercial side , and you do n't do -
0	yeah .
2	okay . i - i have one final question . and - and you are the leader of goldman sachs . there 's no question about that , right ?
0	all right .
2	and uh you set the tone ?
1	and uh i 've asked a lot of questions about ethics today throughout the period .
1	i - i have a question for you .
2	uh , why did goldman sachs decide to release the personal emails of mister tourre and not everybody else ?
2	in this hearing ?
2	and uh it had no investigative purpose . we did n't expose any of that .
2	uh , trunc we had deleted all of it . we were n't exposing it .
2	is - was that a right decision , number one ? and number two , is it fair to your employee ?
2	and why did - why - is that a political ploy or a defense ploy , or - ?
2	why - why would you do that to one of your own employees ?
2	well , this committee had never released any of that information
2	um on him , anything that would trunc give him a trunc into his personal life or his personal
2	thoughts . i - i - to me -
2	i - i go back to the original question .
2	the tone set by that - if i worked for goldman sachs , i 'd be real worried
2	uh that - that somebody
2	has made a decision , uh he 's gon na be a whipping boy .
2	uh , he 's the guy that 's getting hung out to dry . cuz nobody else had their personal emails released !
3	you know , you all made a d - a - a - a very distinct , discriminatory decision
3	that one of your employees
3	is going to be made to look bad ,
3	cuz we did n't release those emails .
2	i understand that . and maybe you were n't involved in trunc
0	thank you . i - i 've gone over , mister chairman . i apologize . mister blankfein , thank you for your cooperation .
