0	good afternoon .
1	in your testimony , you say that goldman has been , and i quote , a client-centered firm for a hundred and forty years .
1	clients come to the firm
1	because , you say , quote , one , they want financial advice ,
1	two , they need financing ,
1	three , they want to buy or sell a stock , bond , or other financial institution - instrument ,
1	or four , they want the help in managing and growing their financial assets . end of quote . is that - that 's -
0	yeah .
1	is it fair to say in the last thirty years that goldman has focused more and more of its resources and gained more and more of its revenue from trading in its own account , without the need for clients ?
0	right .
0	right .
1	trunc but it 's evolved away from kinda the classic investment banking and gotten more and more to trading ?
0	mm-hm .
0	right .
0	yes .
2	but also , it was very profitable . i mean , goldman sachs has been clearly one of the most profitable institutions on the face of this earth .
2	uh , so also , i mean , it trunc it was n't just kind of the move of society . it was also
2	a way , when you sat down and you had your meetings and everything else , you said , look , this is the way to go .
2	and i 'm not - i 'm not saying that from a trunc i 'm really not -
0	yeah .
0	sure .
0	right .
0	okay .
2	we 'll just agree to trunc i mean , i think um that you were one of the leaders in doing this . i mean , i 'm not saying it from a negative standpoint - i think -
0	yeah .
1	and does proprietary and trading activity ever run counter to the interest of your clients , do you think ?
1	do you ever feel like it 's a conflict of interest ? and i 'm not trunc
2	and just to make it straight conflict of interest , cuz one of the things that bothers me most about our society today is
2	it 's like when you say someone has a conflict interest , it 's like you 're accusing them of being crooked . i 'm not saying that . i 'm saying -
1	but it seems to me that - does proprietary trading activity ever run
1	counter to the interest of your clients ?
1	or present a conflict of interest ? let me put it that way .
0	right .
0	right .
0	right .
2	no , no , i know it 's separate . i 'm not - i 'm not saying that -
2	no , no , i got it , i know it 's separate people . but your firm -
2	i 'm not saying anybody 's doing anything wrong .
2	i 'm - i 'm saying that jones
2	over in department a is talking to smith over in department b .
2	but if jones is doing one thing and smith is doing something else ,
2	there is potential for a conflict of interest . now , you say , i resolve that conflict of interest by saying , you ca n't -
2	jones , you ca n't talk to smith .
2	but - but - and - and - when you 're doing out of one firm
2	these kind of transactions , there is a conflict of interest . whether you handle it well ,
2	whether you have a wall down through the middle of
2	goldman sachs or not , it just seems to me that it 's just -
2	when you 're
2	trading for your own account , the potential for conflict of interest ,
2	as opposed to your clients , is just great .
0	sure .
0	right .
0	right .
2	right . trunc uh uh , and all i am trying to do is get at the fact that there - this is a business
2	that - where there is conflict of interest where there trunc did n't used to be . i mean , when you were a hundred percent behind your clients , you were n't involved in much proprietary trading for your own account .
2	you could just worry about your client . but in - you know , inherent in this is
2	risk of conflict . how you deal with it , i 'm not saying , but just the fact the conflict exists .
0	now ,
0	to go back to what chairman levin does , just to go through it one more time . in the first half of two thousand seven ,
0	goldman sachs sold long positions in c_d_o_s to its clients , right ?
0	first half of two thousand seven .
0	right , so you - you sold positions ,
0	and while
0	c_d_o_s that goldman itself had created and marketed while simultaneously taking short positions in the c_d_o_s in order to limit your risk .
2	you were selling c_d_o_s
2	at the same time you were taking short positions on the same c_d_o_s .
0	there 's a thing called uh the hudson mezzanine two thousand six dash one ,
1	supposedly where they 're - specifically you were selling c_d_o_s -
1	into the marketplace , and at the same time ,
1	for your own account , you were selling the same c_d_o_s short .
2	but you believe that could happen ?
0	right .
1	and then you could sell it - you could be selling it short .
0	right .
0	right .
2	no , but i think in this case , i mean , just to get back to specifics , i think you were selling c_d_o_s as part of a marketing plan ,
2	c_d_o_s you 'd - you 'd - you 'd - you 'd bundled together
2	these - these uh - these mortgages , and you were selling them as c_d_o_s ,
2	and you were doing that on a regular basis through two thousand six , two thousand and seven .
2	and then at some point , as mister viniar pointed out , you decided that that -
2	in this whole area
2	that you - you had risk ,
2	and therefore you started selling c_d_o_s short ,
2	in order to - to - to - to solve this risk .
0	right .
0	right .
0	well -
2	i mean , we trunc pre-established with senator levin , you do n't think there 's anything wrong with that .
0	no .
1	but you do n't rule out the possibility that coulda happened ?
0	so -
2	uh get back to - and i do n't wan na -
2	i 'm not gon na - i 'm not gon na ask you twenty times . just gon na ask you once .
2	does that have the appearance of a conflict of interest ?
2	that you were trunc that you were selling c_d_o_s . trust me , according to this mezzanine , you were - you were doing it .
2	trunc uh uh , trunc uh , hudson mezzanine two thousand six dash one ,
2	you basically trunc packaged c_d_o_s , sold them ,
2	and then at some point , i think , uh uh based on what mister viniar said ,
2	you were concerned about this and you decided to short some , other words , in trunc to offset it , the risk , to trunc cut back your risk .
2	and i 'm just saying , do n't you think that has the appearance
1	of a - of a conflict ?
0	right .
0	right .
2	you were n't here , but the last panel , we talked about this , and you decided that you did not want to sell those .
1	we said , look ,
1	what most people do
1	who are n't as sophisticated as goldman sachs ,
1	if they 're in a position -
1	if it 's in a position
2	where you have -
1	you - you have a lot of stock
0	that - that you now think may be risky ,
1	you do n't short something . people do short things , and um there 's nothing wrong with shorting things . but most people just
1	cut back on their lo- , right ? i mean , if they have five hundred shares of stock they 're starting concerned about , maybe they sell a hundred shares .
1	but the previous panel said that - that it was illiquid ,
1	that you did n't want to do that because uh of that . so what you did is you went out and you - and goldman sachs actually sold short .
1	sure , yeah .
2	but you do n't want to because of the liquid or pricing .
0	right .
0	right .
0	right .
0	right .
0	right .
2	but that 's not - no . i 'm talking about where you 're actually out selling it , and trunc this is what the concern is . i mean trunc
2	in every other business -
2	i think this is what the chairman 's getting at .
2	in every other business for most americans , if you were out coming to me and saying , hey ,
2	buy this car from me ,
2	and the same time -
2	these are good cars . these things are great . but i just sold mine because i know it 's a clunker .
2	that 's what - that 's what the concern is . and let me tell you why this is so important and why your oil analogy really does n't work .
3	because what 's really at the heart of this is
3	at what point did goldman sachs decide the housing market 's going south
3	and we want to get out of it ?
2	that 's really at the heart .
2	this is n't like you were carrying this oil deal that you talked about there .
2	this is specifically
2	we 're now in two thousand and seven ,
2	and people were starting to see this market 's bad ,
2	and guess what , goldman sachs sells a lot of stuff short ,
2	and guess what , they make a lot of money on it ,
2	but it 's just a business deal . that - uh that i think is what -
1	do you see where the concern is ? it 's -
1	it 's like ,
2	at what point did trunc it 's like the old watergate thing , um ,
2	what did you know and when did you know it ? i mean , the key thing to this thing is ,
1	if you were still selling securities , mortgage-backed securities , r_m_b_s_s ,
1	residential mortgage-backed securities ,
1	after you really had decided that this was a down market , and were evidenced in it by selling short ,
1	i think that 's what people are wondering about .
0	right .
0	right .
1	that 's okay
2	that - that 's okay because you are not continuing to sell those securities at the same time ,
2	and you may be in legitimate position .
2	no , i understand that ,
2	but - you underwritten it , but
2	the world has changed . i do n't think people have a problem
1	with trunc you actually trunc i sell
0	a series of securities ,
1	and then later on , i see - i - let 's say i sold out every one of them .
1	and then six months later , i sell them short .
2	i do n't think anybody has a problem with that . that 's it . you know , things happen . you sold it at the best time you knew what was going on .
2	there 's nothing inherently wrong with that . what is inherently wrong
2	is if you start selling securities , a series of securities ,
2	and then at some point you decide , this -
2	these are really bombs . i mean , we heard earlier
0	about the fact that you were selling washington mutual
0	long beach securities ,
2	ninety percent of which
2	were stated income loans . ninety percent were stated income loans . uh trunc uh home equity loans
1	were stated income loans .
2	and they all went trunc went bad .
1	so , i mean , at some point somebody looks up and says oh my god i just found out . we 've been selling long beach securities .
1	they 're in our originator things , and
1	they 've got all these stated income loans . we 'd better get out of this business .
1	that 's the - that 's what - that 's where the concern is . at what point did you know that . now -
1	and here 's here 's - here 's the thing . can i ask you - can i ask you really a -
0	yeah .
0	sure .
0	right .
0	right .
0	at what trunc
2	i guess this is the -
0	sure .
0	right .
0	right .
2	can you tell me - i - i - this is the real -
1	this uh - this we 've heard -
1	this we 've heard from everybody , and i think it 's totally credible until you ask the question ,
2	at what point -
2	can you remember - i think it 'd be a pretty important day -
2	that you decided to pull together the management of goldman sachs and say ,
2	you know what ?
2	this housing market
2	is a bad place to be in .
2	trunc trunc when was that day ?
2	you mean you trunc right up until the end ,
2	trunc nobody - you - you did n't have , as corporate policy ,
2	that we should reduce our holdings in mortgage-backed securities .
2	we should stop selling mortgage-backed securities .
2	this thing is a trunc these things are - are just literally -
2	the whole market 's coming apart . i mean , there had to be a time . i mean , it was n't last week .
0	right .
0	right .
0	right .
2	no , no . i mean , at which point did you decide that
2	this -
2	this specific -
2	that goldman sachs had to do everything it could to get out of this business ?
2	reduce - reduce your -
2	well , how about -
2	the second quarter of two thousand and seven . you shut down your c_d_o_ warehouses . you took significant mark to market losses . you reduced loan purchase and reduced counterparty exposure .
2	that sound to me like you wanted to get out of that business .
1	shut down c_d_o_ warehouses ?
2	that was n't an indication you wanted to get out of that business ?
2	but you see - you can see why people were concerned ,
1	you know , about
2	what went on in the second quarter of two thousand and seven , what was going on at this time . at what point did it trunc reach a point where you 're saying , i just ca n't sell this stuff anymore . it 's just not right
2	to trunc continue to originate these loans . i mean , i just trunc i have - just have -
2	you know -
2	i just have incredibly hard to believe .
2	i mean , there is this illusion in this country , i guess , the uh -
2	about how smart people are on wall street . and the people i know on wall street - and i know people going to wall street are trunc really , really smart .
2	and it 's just hard for me to believe , and i trunc it 's hard for the - for the american people to believe
2	that people this smart really never kind of decided that this thing was going south in a big way .
0	right .
0	sure .
0	right .
0	sure .
2	oh no , even now is a different story . i - i believe even now -
2	because everybody - the
2	problem is trunc back -
2	trunc trunc trunc trunc
2	reason this is a problem
2	is because
2	one of the defenses trunc you use is that these are all big boys . that you know , that we 're dealing with the big boys and therefore ,
2	you know , caveat emptor really does n't apply .
2	so big boys knew . and i 'm just saying , at what point - right now , big boys know that the housing market 's a bad deal . now , you can get into the housing market now ,
2	but you 're gon na ask for a one heck of a lot -
2	uh uh better documentation on what you 're getting . you 're gon na ask for higher returns . you 're gon na ask for all lines - kinds of things cuz you know that 's trunc a very risky business .
2	but the real question is that -
2	we 've talked to the - we 've talked to washington mutual . we went through what they went through . they were just pushing stuff out the door
2	as fast as they could get it . did n't matter . stated trunc trunc income loans .
2	we talked to the regulators . the regulators just basically -
2	the office - the head of office of thrift supervision said he had no idea
2	that washington mutual , ninety percent of their equity loans were
2	stated income loans and fifty three percent of their
2	option arms and so on . and he had no idea of that .
2	which was - which -
2	he had previously said
2	stated income loans are an anathema to the business . and then we go to the rating agencies . in two thousand three to two thousand five ,
2	they were still saying , there 's no problem -
2	there is a problem . they were saying , there 's a problem here .
2	and you ask them , well , why in the thousands
0	of , uh , r_m_b_s_s that they rated during two thousand six , two thousand seven ,
1	they rated fifty percent of them triple a_ , and they 're all now junk ?
2	so nobody knew , uh - people were still doing things long after
2	they knew there was a problem .
0	right .
0	sure
2	let me just finish with this thought .
2	this was the worst thing to happen to this country in - economically since the great depression .
2	millions of people were put out of work .
2	millions of people lost their homes .
2	millions of people really hurting . and i think what really bothers people the most ,
2	at least the people i talk to ,
2	is not -
2	you know the -
2	the trunc the bailouts , although that bothers people a lot .
2	i think what trunc bothers them a lot is the incredible compensation . that bothers them , the bonuses to - bonuses to people that during two thousand , two thousand trunc two thousand six , two thousand seven made horrible decisions
2	but still received trunc gigantic performance bonuses . especially from c_e_o_s and executives who said this should be based on performance ,
2	and the performance was lousy .
2	and still
2	they made billions of dollars .
2	but i think what really
2	kind of gets them the most is here we are
2	after this terrible travail , and there 's only one section of our entire economy
2	that has to worry what it 's going to do
2	with billions of dollars for bonuses .
2	that 's the part . the fact that -
2	that - that - and it - and
2	it may be totally a chance .
2	it may be totally
2	something beyond our control . but the idea
2	that wall street came out of this thing just fine , thank you ,
2	is just something that just grates on people . and i think they think that you did n't just come out fine ,
2	because
2	it was luck .
2	they think that you guys just really gamed this thing
2	real , real well . not that you caused a whole thing , you were - although i would say
2	you were a big part of the cause .
2	but just that you came out of this thing fine . i think that 's what disturbs them .
1	so i think that 's -
1	that 's basically
1	the point i was making . thank you , mister chairman .
