0	we now will call our final witness for today 's hearing , uh lloyd blankfein , the chairman and chief executive officer of goldman sachs . mister
0	blankfein , we appreciate your being with us today .
0	pursuant to rule six , all witnesses who testify before the subcommittee are required to be sworn , so we would ask you to stand and raise your right hand .
0	do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give will be the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth , so help you , god ?
0	thank you very much . you uh -
0	i do n't know if you 've heard the -
0	earlier uh testimony or not , but we use a trunc a timing system which will -
0	give you a red light in five minutes . and the light will turn yellow after four minutes -
0	uh so that you can try to uh -
0	give us your testimony , if possible , in five minutes .
0	thank you very much , uh , mister blankfein . um -
0	we 've heard -
0	in earlier panels today
0	example after example
0	where
0	goldman
0	was
0	selling securities to people
0	and then
0	not telling them that they were taking and intended to maintain a short position against those same securities .
1	i 'm deeply troubled by that ,
1	and it 's made worse when your own employees
1	believe that those securities
1	are junk
2	or a piece of crap
2	or a shitty deal , words that
2	those emails show your employees believe
2	about a number of those deals .
2	billion-dollar trunc timberwolf , synthetic c_d_o_ squared . c_d_o_s get squared now .
2	a senior executive called it a shitty transaction , but the goldman sales force was told that it was a priority item for two straight months .
0	goldman sold six hundred million dollars in timberwolf securities to clients while at the same time
1	holding a short position ,
2	in other words , betting against it .
1	the c_d_o_ goes to junk trunc it went to junk status in about seven months . your investors lost big time .
2	but
2	goldman
2	won on that deal , profited on that deal .
0	in the five hundred million dollar long beach r_m_b_s_ deal ,
0	goldman shorted it at the same time that it was selling it to clients .
0	securities defaulted within a few years with a sixty five percent delinquency rate .
1	the bad news
1	in your own words , was that your clients lose money .
1	but the good news is that goldman sachs made money on that deal .
0	the next one , the seven hundred million dollar fremont deal . this was a r_m_b_s_ of subprime loans ,
2	a notoriously bad lender .
2	your folks new it .
0	one of your clients talks to your sales force about it , and your sales force
1	among themselves
1	call it crap loans .
2	they go out and sell em anyway .
0	the same time that you 're selling - your people - your sales people are selling those
0	items , they
0	are
1	shorting the deal .
2	so you short them so that goldman makes money when this security fails , which it did in ten months .
1	on the three hundred million dollar anderson synthetic c_d_o_ ,
1	c_d_o_ is stuffed with new century loans . these are known
1	to be shoddy loans . i think it was one or two on the list of
1	bad loan producers .
0	a client of yours asked ,
2	how did goldman sachs get comfortable with this deal ?
0	goldman sachs , in other words , pointing out that it was new century .
0	goldman sachs
2	did n't respond and did not say , we 're not comfortable , we 're shorting it . we 're betting against this deal .
2	asked a direct question , how can you guys get comfortable with a deal involving
2	those loans ? and instead of responding honestly ,
1	we got problems , too , we 're not taking any chances on this deal , we may be selling it , but we 're also betting against it . that 's not what happened . instead -
2	the client was told that goldman was an equity holder , which it was , at the same time , but that was a half truth because it was also betting against that same security .
1	that c_d_o_ failed within seven months .
2	your clients lost .
2	goldman profits .
0	the two billion dollar hudson synthetic c_d_o_ . goldman sachs
2	was the sole protection buyer on this c_d_o_ with a two billion dollar short . in other words , they were betting against it .
1	a goldman sales person described it as junk ,
2	not to the buyer , of course ,
0	but inside .
1	the c_d_o_ imploded within two years . your clients lost .
1	goldman profited .
0	now -
1	there is such a fundamental conflict , it seems to me ,
1	when goldman is selling securities
1	which - particularly when its own people believe they are bad items , described in the way these emails show that they were described and
1	how they were - but they - your own sales people believed about them .
2	to go out and sell these securities to people
2	and then bet against those same securities ,
2	it seems to me , is a fundamental conflict of interest
2	and is - raises a real ethical issue .
0	and i 'd like to
2	ask you whether or not you believe that goldman
0	um ,
1	in fact , treated those clients properly . and as you say , if clients believe we do n't deserve their trust , you 're not gon na survive .
0	those are the ringing words you give us in your opening statement .
2	how - trunc given that kind of a history
0	here
0	going heavily short in a market ,
1	which you did . you made a strategic decision to do that .
1	but then on these specific examples
2	to be betting against the very securities which you 're selling to your clients
0	and internally your own people believe
2	that these are crappy securities .
1	how do you expect
0	to
1	deserve the trust of your clients , and is there not an inherent conflict here ?
3	do you think they know that you think something is a piece of crap when you sell it to them and then bet against it ? you think they know that ?
2	i - i - we went through it today .
2	i 'm just asking you a question . do you think if your people
2	think something is a piece of crap ,
2	and go out and sell that , and then your company bets against it , do you think that that deserves your trust ?
2	no , no . you bet against it .
2	when you sell something to a client , they think , presumably , you 're rid of it . it 's no longer in your inventory .
2	not necessarily , but they have at least a right to believe that you want that
2	security to work for them . that is a belief which i would think most customers would have . but here 's what trunc trunc in these - example after example -
1	it 's not just that you sold something , which obviously meant someone was buying it . there 's a seller and a buyer . that 's not what we 're talking about .
2	we 're talking about betting against the very thing that you 're selling .
2	betting against it , going short against it
2	without disclosing that to that client .
2	you think people would buy securities from you if you
1	if you said , you know ,
1	we want you to know this . we 're gon na sell you this , but we 're gon na take trunc going out and buying
1	insurance against this security succeeding .
1	we 're taking a short position .
1	we 're getting this thing out of our inventory .
2	we 're betting against this very thing we 're selling to you . that 's a totally different thing
1	from selling a security
1	and no longer having an interest in it .
2	my question is ,
1	is there not a conflict when you sell something to somebody and then
1	are determined
2	to bet against that same security and you do n't disclose that to the person you 're selling it ? do you see a problem ?
2	yeah , and that 's the part that 's very confusing to folks cuz they think you -
2	they think you 're fiduciaries ,
0	and then -
3	yeah , but they are not told that not only are you not a fiduciary , you are betting against the very security that you 're selling to them !
3	you do n't disclose that . that 's worse -
2	that 's worse than not being a fiduciary .
3	that 's being in a conflict of interest situation .
3	that you are betting against the security you 're selling to them ? they do n't care ?
2	yeah . you 're betting . you 're going short against the very security . you 're holding a short position
2	against the very security .
2	i read you over and over and over again ,
2	you 're selling securities ,
2	many of which are described as crap by your own sales force internally .
2	putting that aside just for a moment . we 'll come back to that . that makes it worse .
2	but there 's an inherent conflict
2	when you do n't disclose to your client
2	that this security that you 're buying from us
2	has obviously a short side , but we 're the people who are keeping the short on this one .
2	we 're betting against
2	this security
2	succeeding .
2	and you do n't think that 's relevant to a client ?
2	maybe just call it a human context .
2	you do n't believe it 's relevant to a customer of yours , that you are selling a security to , that you are betting against that same security ? you just do n't think it 's relevant
2	and needs to be disclosed . is that the bottom line ?
3	oh , yes , they did .
3	oh , yes , they did .
2	oh . now - now you 're saying they might know .
1	yeah . and - and - what do you think -
1	by the way they have an idea , more than an idea in these cases . but putting that aside , what do you think about
1	selling securities which your own people think are
2	crap ? does that bother you ?
2	no , this is real .
2	we heard it today .
2	we heard it today . this is a shitty deal . this is crap .
2	four or five examples . what - what 's your reaction to that ?
1	how about the sales person ?
2	i 'm - i understand that . we 're talking where you were the seller of the security and you ,
2	you , goldman sachs ,
2	believes it 's a piece of crap .
2	where you - where you - no , as
2	part of the deal . i 'm talking about this . i 'm not talking about where you 're
1	selling securities out of your inventory . i understand that .
2	people come to you , you buy trunc you trunc
2	buy securities . i 'm talking about
2	where the deal is
2	that you 're selling
2	has you in the short position and intending to keep that position .
2	that 's the deal . and whether there 's not an obligation then to disclose to the people you 're selling to in that deal -
2	hey , we , goldman , we may be selling it to you , but we believe that this thing 's going the other direction . we 're taking the short position .
2	you do n't see any conflict in that ?
2	and where you take a short position , you think that should be disclosed ?
2	where you 're betting against that same security you 're selling , you think that trunc yes or no , do you think that ought to be disclosed or not ?
2	yeah . you 're taking the short position and you 're staying . you intend to keep it . that 's a bet against that security succeeding .
3	no let - just -
2	just try my question .
2	no , in - just try my question .
2	in a deal where you are selling securities , and you are intending to keep the short side of that deal ,
2	which is what happened here
2	in a lot of these deals ,
2	do you think you have an obligation to tell the person
2	that you 're selling that security to in that deal
2	that you are keeping the trunc short position in that deal ?
2	that 's my question .
2	that you intend to keep that short position .
2	not forever . it 's your intention to keep that short position .
2	i said , where you intend to keep a short position . that 's my question .
2	how about in - you 're investing in these securities . this is n't a market making deal . this is where you have made a decision , strategically ,
2	to you - or not strategically , forget that . you 've made a decision
0	to
1	bet against , to take the short side of
1	a security that you 're selling .
2	and you do n't think that there is any moral obligation here ?
2	put aside the legal obligation . you do n't think there 's an obligation
2	to tell the person
2	that you 're selling this to
2	that you are betting against that security by maintaining
2	a short position in it ?
2	it 's a very straightforward question .
3	that 's not the opposite side from that client ! that 's the same side .
2	no . you said a client comes to you and wants to sell you something . you decide whether to buy or sell it . that - or not - whether to buy it or not .
2	but i 'm saying where you 're not selling it to anyone else , you are
2	selling to somebody and you are taking the opposite position .
2	you are betting .
2	you are going out and getting a default swap ,
2	however it 's done .
2	you are betting against the very security that you are selling
0	to that person .
2	you do n't see any problem ?
2	you do n't see that you have to disclose , when you 've put together a deal
2	and you go looking for people to buy those securities ,
2	it just adds insult to injury when your people think it 's a
2	pile of junk .
2	that - that adds insult to injury . but the - the underlying injury
2	is that you have determined that you are gon na keep
2	the opposite position
2	from the security that you 're selling to someone .
2	you just do n't see any obligation
2	to disclose that . that 's -
1	do they have an opinion ? do they - they - have an trunc
2	a belief that you , at least when you 're going out peddling securities ,
2	that you want that security to succeed ? do n't they have that
2	right to assume
2	that if you 're going out selling securities ,
2	that you have a belief
2	that that 's something which would be good for that client ?
2	they do n't want - you 're out there selling it to them . you 're out there selling these securities .
2	this is n't someone walking in the door . you 're picking up the phone .
2	you 're calling all these people .
2	you do n't tell them that it 's -
2	you think it is a piece junk . you do n't tell them
2	that this is a security which incorporates
1	or which in some way references
2	a whole lot of bad stuff in your own inventory ,
1	bad lemons , i think the word was called .
2	you do n't -
2	you do n't - you 're out there looking around .
2	over and over again , we have emails . you 're out there looking around for buyers of stuff , whether it 's junk or not junk ,
2	where you are betting against what you 're selling .
2	you are intending to keep
2	the opposite side . this is n't where you 're just selling something from your inventory .
2	this is where you are betting against the very product you are selling , and you 're just not troubled by it . that 's the bottom line .
2	there 's no trouble in your mind or heart -
2	it 's a question , not a characterization . i 'm saying , you 're not troubled .
2	and where you are betting , keeping a betting interest against the security .
2	it 's not just they 're buying from you . that 's not my issue .
2	they 're buying something from you where you solicit them to buy and then you are betting against . you are keeping the short side .
2	you are going out
2	and getting a default swap . in some way ,
2	you are - or - or you are going on the a_b_x_ - selling the a_b_x_ .
2	whatever it is ,
2	you are taking
2	a position against the very security
2	that you are selling , and you are not troubled .
3	and you want people to trust you .
3	why would people - ? i would n't trust you .
2	if you came to me and wanted to sell me securities
2	and you did n't tell me that you have a bet against that same security -
2	you think - you do n't think that affects my thinking ?
3	talking about that security . mister blankfein , stick to the point .
2	i 'm talking about that security that you 're selling out there . you go out and sell that security .
2	oil security , i do n't care what kind it is .
0	and that
2	you are betting against that same security you 're out selling . i just have to keep repeating this . i 'm not talking about generally in the market .
2	i 'm saying you got a short bet against that security .
3	you do n't think the client would care ?
2	this is much more than a market maker . you 're keeping a proprietary interest in a position
2	that is exactly the opposite of what you are selling .
2	okay , i trunc we are going round and round -
2	we 're going round and round on this , and i do n't think we 're going to get
2	uh an answer from you , basically that you have any concern about that kind of a situation .
0	senator mccain .
0	thank you very much , senator mccain . senator kaufman .
0	thank you very much , senator kaufman . doctor coburn .
0	thank you . senator mccaskill .
0	thank you , senator mccaskill . senator pryor .
0	thank you so much , senator pryor . senator tester .
