0	uh , thank you for being here , mister blankfein . um -
1	would you agree that the financial crisis that has brought on the greatest recession since the great depression was due to a collapse of the housing market ?
1	and your involvement in the housing market is not in the direct mortgage business ?
1	and you received -
1	ten billion dollars as part of tarp ?
1	and why did you think you needed that money ?
1	but you trunc you did n't make any direct
1	home loan mortgages .
1	but since it was the housing market collapsed , you needed ten billion dollars , and
1	you recovered rather nicely , i guess . uh , i guess you declared
1	earnings for two thousand and nine of some thirteen billion , is that -
0	is that correct ?
0	roughly ?
0	and your bonus was ?
0	about nine million . um -
1	and you 're - and you 're doing pretty well this year , too , according to your earnings and your stock .
1	you 're doing pretty well this year ?
1	how do you think the community banks are doing , mister blankfein ?
1	i think they 're doing pretty poorly . they 're being closed all the time . they 're the ones that make
0	the loans for the mortgages .
1	think they 're doing okay , the community banks ?
1	but goldman 's doing pretty well . um -
1	and one of the reasons , obviously , why goldman 's doing pretty well ,
2	before they got the ten billion dollars of tarp money , of taxpayers ' money ,
0	there was a november two thousand and seven email from you that stated , quote ,
0	of course we did n't dodge the mortgage mess .
0	we lost money , then we made more than we lost because of shorts .
1	that 's a quote from your email that you wrote . how much did you make ?
0	uh ,
2	more than you lost because of shorts ?
0	you know ,
1	mister blankfein , there 's a lot of animosity out there . i 'm sure you have uh seen that , and
0	we find
1	in my state , for example , there 's forty eight percent of the homes are still under water . in other words , they are worth less , as you know , than the -
0	than the payments that are being made . and the community banks
1	continue to struggle
1	and have great difficulties .
0	and
1	you received ten billion dollars in trunc trunc tarp money ,
1	and the community banks are the ones that are going under .
1	trunc maybe you could - trunc do you think that that - in the minds of a lot of americans , that there 's a - a - a real contradiction there ? you 're doing fine .
1	you 're paid millions of dollars in bonuses . perhaps you earned them . i 'm not
1	uh , qualified to say that . meanwhile ,
1	community banks , the ones who were the direct lenders
1	in the housing market , the direct involvement , the ones that - not you ,
1	but that - that the homeowners relied on ,
1	are the ones that are struggling and - and uh still having enormous difficulty , including
1	my home state of arizona . do trunc do you see ? do you understand why people might think there 's a
1	dichotomy there , mister blankfein , trunc trunc or even unfairness there ?
2	and i understand that life is n't fair , but
1	a lot of americans
2	do n't quite understand what went on there . they do n't understand what hit em .
0	um .
1	and i know you 're not a charitable organization . i know why you 're in business .
1	but has goldman sachs done anything to try to help uh these community banks and these homeowners with the -
1	who are struggling to make their mortgage payments ?
1	i mean , you - you did get ten billion dollars of the taxpayers ' money .
0	what about community banks ? any involvement with them ?
0	um -
1	trunc explain , perhaps for the benefit of the subcommittee and for the record ,
1	what is a synthetic -
1	c_d_o_ ?
0	a synthetic c_d_o_ .
0	yeah , sorry .
0	in other words , you really do n't - in a synthetic -
0	um -
0	c_d_o_ , you do n't really have any ownership . you 're just betting on the fortunes of that
0	c_d_o_ . is that correct ?
1	how does that differ from
1	going out to caesar 's palace to the sports book and
1	making a wager on the outcome of a athletic contest ?
0	it 's been alleged in the case of the
0	abacus - or abacus -
0	abacus -
0	transaction that the credit agency was not informed
1	that a hedge fund client was taking a short position . is that true ?
1	should it have been disclosed ?
0	the - the credit rating agency , the one that -
0	but
0	let 's assume that the
0	agency did n't know . is that -
2	well , you would know whether you informed the rating agency or not , would n't you ?
2	the - the rating agency
2	would know whether they were told or not .
0	the rated agency -
0	the hedge fund trunc so
1	trunc there 's a difference of opinion between
1	the hedge fund client and goldman ?
1	well ,
1	the rating agency
1	rates the c_d_o_ , right ?
1	and it is alleged that the rating agency
1	was not told
1	that a hedge trunc fund client was taking a short position .
1	well ,
1	um , a lot of these things are
1	fairly complicated , mister blankfein . um .
1	and a lot of americans do n't understand
1	what happened ,
1	but they do understand
1	that they are still hurting very badly , many of them across this country ,
0	and
1	they believe that
1	your handling ,
1	and other other financial institutions ' ,
1	of the housing market and these complicated transactions
1	were a direct contributor to the meltdown
1	that
1	america experienced .
0	and
1	they have n't recovered .
1	you 've done pretty well .
0	um .
2	i do n't think that 's
2	the vision that most americans have of what -
2	how this nation and its economy should function .
0	i thank you , mister chairman .
