1	thank you , mister chairman , and thank you , mister blankfein for being here today . i wan na
1	start by um ,
1	saying that in many ways , the focus on just your firm
1	is tremendously unfair .
0	um , this - this - the activities that are being talked about , and i 'm sure
1	there - we could compile
1	the same kind of documents , the same kind of emails
1	from all of your competitors
1	on wall street . i mean , the conduct that we 're
1	looking at
0	um
1	is - is - was not exclusive
1	to goldman sachs and i think it 's important to acknowledge that on the record .
2	in fairness , there probably ought to be another four or five c_e_o_s sitting up there with you ,
1	as we discuss-
2	i 'm sure you would .
2	i 'm sure you would .
0	um .
2	and - and i know it seems like we 're harping , but it 's because that - so many of the
2	cultural realities of what you all do
2	is jarring
2	to trunc to most americans .
1	um , this notion of um ,
1	selling a product that you 're betting against
2	is hard for people to understand , that just have basic sense of right and wrong and common sense .
2	and we 've spent a lot of time going over that today . i want to talk about uh several details as it relates to that .
0	um .
2	one is that it 's clear to me that you all had - there was kind of an orphan document in the documents that we got , and one of the orphan documents we got
0	was from a woman named manisha nanik
1	to a - a person named loren morris . and what it was is a summary of an analysis
1	of mortgages
1	that you all were gon na
2	slice and dice
1	and - and do all the tranches , and -
0	and um ,
2	and it 's a fairly detailed - this is uh exhibit number seventy seven - it 's a fairly detailed finding , and uh it 's important , the date on this
2	is march thirteenth , two thousand and seven .
0	uh , on this document .
0	trunc this document says that seven percent of the mortgages that they trunc that - that - that the goldman employee looked at
1	had material occupancy misrepresentations , where borrowers took anywhere
2	from four to fourteen loans at a time and defaulted on all .
2	uh , your risk in the loan performance and difficulty foreclosing on the second liens would be potentially unsecured .
2	another twenty percent of the pool had material compliance issues .
2	they 're mainly missing final huds .
1	uh , we can not put these loans back . we will need to consider option of our service or fixing the areas - the errors via refinance , refund , or disclosure .
0	it 's exhibit number seventy seven .
1	she goes on to say , approximately ten percent of the pool is flagged as potential r_e_o_ or potential unsecured of second lien .
2	another five percent of the pool
2	was originally fraudulently based on the d_d_ results .
2	main findings , possible i_d_ theft , broker misrepresentation , straw buyer ,
2	falsification of information origination documents .
1	there is - and then - and then she says , there 's a reputation headline risk , as well .
1	so - trunc now , i 'm not sure if these - uh - you did issue a bunch of new century mortgages , um ,
0	at or around that time in a - in a c_d_o_ ,
0	um in a -
0	trunc trunc in one of these
0	instruments .
2	i - i ca n't say that these are the ones that you issued , but what it tells me is
2	you had internal analysis on these mortgages .
2	well ,
1	what it - i think what -
2	it 's plain on its face that this is a - a goldman sachs employee that has uh analyzed
2	a group of mortgages that you all were considering packaging up -
2	either for somebody to bet on or bet against .
2	well , i 'd - i -
2	here 's what i 'm -
3	this is your document . this came from you . it 's a goldman sachs document .
3	i do n't know whether you did these or not . the point i 'm trying to make is it shows that an analysis was going on on the mortgages that trunc went into your instruments .
3	internally .
0	okay .
2	well , if - if that 's the case , then when you - when you issued the -
2	all the -
2	uh , all the documents that you did when you did the um -
0	what 's the name of the company
0	that had all the problems ?
0	long beach mortgage .
1	uh , when you did all the long beach mortgage , do you think you did the same analysis on all the long beach mortgages ?
2	well , in may two thousand and six , you were the co-lead underwriter with wamu to securitize about five hundred and thirty two in subprime second lien
2	fixed rate mortgages originated by long beach .
2	now , keep in mind that this is the same long beach that had - had to buy back
2	hundreds of millions of dollars of mortgages because of problems .
0	um , at one point in time a few years earlier , they 'd been shut down
2	because of problems .
1	and i guess um ,
2	i would like to request , on behalf of the committee , that we see the analysis ,
2	uh first of all , that we figure out what - what mortgages these were that were analyzed , where you found fraud and you found
0	uh five percent fraud , seven percent material occupancy misrepresentation , twenty percent material compliance issues .
2	um , i think it would be important for us to see those documents
2	on - trunc on the instruments you created um , for folks to take a side on .
2	i mean , i think the point is
2	that it 's hard for us to believe
2	um that if you all were doing the due trunc diligence that you 've stated a couple of times in your -
2	in your testimony ,
2	now we know
2	that these things were full of this kind of stuff .
2	we know that .
2	and you obviously knew it on - on - on - trunc one instance because we have a document from somebody in your employ that
0	um thirty eight percent of the loans are out of tolerance .
0	i 'm recommending putting back twenty six percent of the pool , if possible .
2	uh - uh - uh - i - i - it does n't make me comfortable
2	that you all , after doing the due diligence ,
2	actually
2	um disclosed as much as you maybe should have disclosed about some of the problematic paper that you were packaging up for investors ,
2	and so i would like to follow that trail
2	and get the same kind of documents on the instruments that you did -
2	that you did put out in the market , both in two thousand six , two thousand seven -
0	kay . um .
1	let me ask you this . uh , and by the way , another - in may of two thousand six , right about when you did that ,
0	uh office of thrift supervision just did a scoop
0	at long beach
1	uh and found all kinds of problems with their mortgages , almost at the exact time you were putting your instrument out .
0	so that 's why i question
1	what kind of due diligence was actually going on and trunc how much due diligence you were actually
0	using in - in - in
1	telling the buying public what was in these various transactions .
2	in your testimony , you expressed um -
1	you trunc you expressed regret that goldman missed the signs of a system where credit was too easy . um .
0	and you 've said nobody could know when the housing market would crash or how bad it would crash .
0	do you - looking back , do you think that
0	uh ,
0	you 'd all did enough to look at what was in these - what were in these instruments and - and - trunc and how strong they were on - on their face ?
0	uh -
1	do you think you exposed
1	the kind of problems that these loans - the vast majority of these loans represented ?
1	more disclosure - would more disclosure , in fact , harm your business model ?
2	if you truly are just the house ,
2	if you truly are just trying to
2	manage
0	um ,
1	transactions on both sides of a proposition ?
2	yeah , and - and - and it 's - it 's interesting to me that - that the investment banks that , um ,
0	have created all these exotic instruments ,
2	that there has not been more effort to push for more disclosure ,
2	um that it appears that we are dragging you along kicking and screaming .
0	is that an unfair characterization ?
2	there is no question that in - uh sometime in early two thousand and seven ,
2	uh , you realized that there was a lot of - you had a lot of residual positions ,
2	uh equity residual positions on these
2	uh c_d_o_s , and that you wanted those books cleaned up as quickly as possible .
2	well , in exhibit number one thirty , there 's an email from you
2	to tom montag ,
0	and the email reads as follows . tom , you refer to losses stemming from residual positions in old deals .
0	could should we have cleaned up these books before ,
0	and are we doing enough right now to sell off cats and dogs in other books throughout the division ?
0	that was in february of two thousand and seven .
2	that would seem to be indicating that at - at - in early two thousand seven , before you all had ,
0	in fact ,
2	marketed more of these
0	synthetic c_d_o_s ,
2	that you um were basically saying , let 's clean up the residual positions we have , the cats and dogs ,
2	and push them to traders .
0	okay .
2	well , i will just tell you , i wo n't take the time to read through the whole email chain , but it 's clear if you read through the whole email chain ,
2	this whole email chain
2	was about risk in the whole loan trading business .
2	and it 's clear that what was going on here is there was a lot of internal noise
2	about the fact that you had long positions ,
0	uh equity positions in a lot of this stuff as you guys were moving into -
1	um what - i think we 've
1	beaten this horse until it 's almost dead . into um some major short positions
0	throughout two thousand and seven .
2	and i - i -
1	as - as the chairman said earlier , in earlier questioning of other witnesses ,
2	um as you all keep talking about your net for two thousand and seven ,
2	no one has been able to delineate specifically how much of the long position that you were suffering in two thousand seven ,
2	is this really old stuff ?
2	as opposed to any
2	notion that you guys were actually participating
2	in long purchases through two thousand and seven .
0	right .
0	okay .
0	well , i 'm - um -
2	i 'm not sure when you look at all the documents that the - the - the older long positions you had would be considered small by most people 's standards ,
1	but maybe it would within the context of your organization .
2	yeah , trunc trunc trunc
0	and -
2	and - and i guess what i 'm trying to get at is the point we 've been trying to make , and this is - this is where i think ,
0	um ,
0	this notion that you guys are market makers ,
0	and you also are taking
0	um - sometimes taking positions
0	um ,
0	outside of your just market making .
2	uh that that is what 's hard for many of us to kinda get our arms around .
2	and i guess , you know - i 've - i 've
2	i 've been talking sports analogies today because
2	i think there 's a lot about this that relates to
2	gambling on a sporting event , because the synthetic c_d_o_s did n't trunc represent anything but gambling .
2	um , it was folks taking one side or the other on -
2	it was n't real mortgages in there . it was just stuff saying , take a bet !
2	just like you bet on a football game .
2	is there anything that you would not create a market for if a client came to you to create a market ? i - i understand that some people are trying to create
2	a derivative market now in how movies are going to do .
3	but did n't mister paulson just wan na make money because he thought the market was gon na tank ?
2	was n't - he did n't have a -
3	he just was looking for a place to - to - to score on a bet ! was n't he ?
1	i understand .
1	i understand .
2	mister blankfein , there is a big difference between finding the opposite side of a certainty in a commodity hedge for a farmer that needs certainty
2	or an airline company that needs to
2	figure out what jet fuel 's gon na cost
2	and two sides of a deal that are both just betting .
2	there is - there is nothing in a synthetic c_d_o_
2	that is essential to certainty to anybody 's business other than somebody just deciding they want to take one side of a deal and the other side of a deal .
2	that 's what a synthetic c_d_o_ is !
2	and we ca n't take this too far ?
2	we ca n't trunc trunc i mean d- , you do n't think that there 's a point where
2	we make up stuff to bet on and you guys are securitizing it
2	and tranching it - ?
2	and - and - and especially the situation in - in this instance .
2	um , you know -
2	you - you -
2	put one side of the bet in the room with the people who are picking the product ,
2	trunc which is ,
2	uh i think , bizarre . i guess trunc
2	your representatives this morning acted like it was n't any big trunc
2	they - that the person who came to you that wanted to bet against the deal , you put them in the room with the - with the - the trunc people who were going to pick the stuff in the deal .
2	in other words ,
3	it was n't - you did n't put both sides in there . you put one side of the bet in with the people who were picking the product that was going to be gambled on !
3	that seems weird . it 's - trunc it - you know what it reminds me of ?
2	it reminds me of this notion
2	i think most americans think it would be really wrong for one of the football players to be able to be in the room with the bookie trying to influence
3	what the line was going to be , and then they turn around and bet on the game they 're playing in !
3	that 's what this feels like . it feels like that
2	you guys are betting on the game you 're playing in
2	and that maybe it 's not a level playing field .
1	i - i - i understand that . i - i um -
2	it - it -
2	you - but -
2	but you understand that it f-
2	it feels like you guys
2	were pushing a product that you were betting against
2	at the same time
3	you were letting somebody who wanted one side of the deal in the room with the people who were picking the product !
2	not the other side of the deal .
2	none of that seems like even steven . none of that seems like trunc you 're an honest bookie
2	who 's trying to manage risk on both sides and just get it down to the vig .
2	well , that also seems weird .
2	that also seems weird .
2	i mean , it seems like to me that if you um -
2	you know , and - and i - it 's hard for me to believe that that selection agent
2	was excited about that deal if they really knew
2	the person who was helping them pick all the deals was trunc trunc wanted to bet against it .
2	and i 'm not sure that , frankly , um ,
2	it - it - it is
1	a thing of value that
1	most americans would be comfortable that we would be backing up
1	and providing taxpayer bailouts to companies that were engaging in that ,
1	uh especially if you were n't actually really dealing with a commodity
1	or dealing with a product at the base of the transaction , that you were
1	making up securitizations for people to , in fact ,
1	take positions on , only for that reason .
1	um , it seemed like - it seems like hamsters in a cage
1	trying to get to compensation
1	as opposed to societal value that investment banks in this country , i think ,
1	have represented for many many years .
1	i really appreciate you being here today .
1	i hope you stay at the table with us as we work on this legislation .
2	i think , clearly , this hearing has shown in the work this committee has done , and the staff has done amazing work here ,
2	that we have conflict of interest issues ,
2	we have disclosure issues ,
2	and we have transparency issues ,
2	and we need to get all of those fixed to make sure
2	we do n't have a repeat
2	of this debacle . thank you , mister chairman .
