0	thank you , mister chairman .
1	uh , i 'd like to start , if i can ,
0	about -
0	with the
0	topic of asking you about
0	um credit rating agencies . in retrospect , uh how accurate were the credit rating agencies
0	in rating the various tranches of c_d_o_s ?
0	and - and so ,
0	you - you know you -
1	these got rated as triple a_ ,
0	and um i know they were downgraded later , but
1	trunc why do you think that they missed the rating so bad ?
0	from your standpoint , uh what ability , if any ,
0	do investment banks have to influence a rating by a credit rating agency ?
0	trunc can you kinda , as lawyers say , forum shop and try to find a
0	better rating with a different agency ?
0	okay .
0	okay .
0	um .
0	uh -
0	okay .
1	that 's fair enough . let me uh ask a - a question i 'm not sure anyone has asked you on a topic that no one has touched on yet .
0	and that is the use of off balance sheet limited and special investment partnerships .
1	uh , i have a concern about those , and -
0	what 's that ?
0	trunc the off balance sheet
0	limited and special investment partnerships .
0	um .
0	why would your company ever want to use an off balance sheet
0	um investment vehicle ? why - why - why would - why would you all ever do that ?
0	what 's the - what 's the motivation to move it off balance sheet ?
0	but -
1	but - but goldman does that , right ?
0	okay .
1	so they 're disclosed ?
1	the off balance sheet is disclosed ?
1	you do n't know .
0	okay .
1	well , we - we may follow up in another context on that .
1	uh , i 'd like to ask you about
1	the securities and exchange commission case , if you 're comfortable answering these questions . and if your lawyer says you 're not , i understand why you would n't be , but
0	i do have uh some questions based on the press release that the
0	s_e_c_ sent out uh back on april sixteen .
0	and
1	uh i just want - if - if you 'll answer , i 'd just like to get a feel for ,
0	um ,
1	you know , what you think really happened , and i 'd trunc i 'd trunc i guess i 'd like to give you a chance to explain some of this .
0	um .
0	goldman - it says , goldman sachs failed to disclose to investors vital information about the c_d_o_ ,
0	in particular the role that a major hedge fund played in the portfolio selection process
0	and the fact that the hedge fund had taken a short position
0	against the c_d_o_ .
0	is that true , that you failed to disclose that ?
0	right .
1	trunc let me ask the - the follow-up question about your standard
1	of uh behavior , i guess we can say .
0	should that information have been disclosed to investors ?
0	right .
0	and - and let me go to the next paragraph . it says , goldman wrongly permitted a client that was betting against the mortgage market to heavily influence
0	which mortgage securities to include in an investment portfolio
0	while telling other investors that the securities
0	were selected by an independent , objective third party . so the first question is , is that allegation true ?
0	and if it is -
0	this press release also says , the marketing materials for the c_d_o_ known as abacus two thousand seven dash a_c_ one ,
0	all represented that the r_m_b_s_ portfolio underlying the c_d_o_
0	was selected by a_c_a_ management , l_l_c_ , a third party with expertise in analyzing credit risk in r_m_b_s_ .
0	the s_e_c_ alleges that undisclosed in the marketing materials and unbeknownst to the investors , the paulson
0	and company hedge fund , which was poised to benefit
0	if the r_m_b_s_ defaulted ,
0	played a trunc a significant role in selecting which r_m_b_s_ should make up the portfolio .
0	um , is that true , that all the materials represented -
0	um ,
0	that the uh r_m_b_s_ portfolio was selected -
0	underlying the c_d_o_ was selected by a_c_a_ management ?
0	is that true ?
0	and do you have documentation there at your company about what was disclosed to whom and when ?
1	and so on these type transactions , there are
1	documented disclosure materials that pass among all the parties ?
0	kay .
1	um , in the trunc in the past twenty five years , america has seen an increasing number and severity
1	of financial crises .
1	you have the savings and loan crisis , enron , the dot-com bubble , the housing bubble .
0	um , what steps will wall street take to assure that there is not another financial crisis ?
0	that - that we 're working on now ?
1	well , that was
1	uh one of my
1	questions that i was going to follow up with , is what are the lessons learned
0	from this
0	most recent financial crisis , and
0	what is goldman doing differently internally
0	uh now that uh you 've had to go through the bailout and all the other
0	strains and difficulties that we 've all gone through the last year and a half ?
1	you know , there 's a
1	company uh that 's based in little rock named stevens , incorporated . i do n't know if you know stevens , inc .
0	and um ,
0	jack stevens , one of the founding brothers of that - there were two stevens brothers that founded that company .
0	he always said that uh he had the philosophy of ,
0	we want to be in business tomorrow .
0	and what he meant by that , and the way apparently stevens still operates is
1	they want to service their customers ,
1	do an excellent job there ,
1	and also they want to uh be
1	prudent and um ,
1	you know , jealously guard the trust of their investors . so ,
1	stevens , as far as i know , has never gotten into some of these twenty to one , thirty to one , forty to one type ,
1	you know leveraged deals . they just do n't - do n't do that . and
1	i 'm sure they have n't made as much money as some in the industry have , but also ,
1	i think that um they have remained very very sound through this process .
0	my question is ,
0	um ,
0	is goldman sachs and or the industry
0	changing those really high leverage ratios and going back to something that
1	uh i think is more appropriate , and you may trunc you may say more conservative , but
1	you know , that is - is based more on reality rather than just , you know , how much money you can make off one transaction ?
0	thank you . mister chairman , thank you - and , mister chairman , thank you for your
1	uh diligence on this matter . like i said , this did n't start with you uh two weeks ago . this -
1	has been going on for a year and a half and you 've just done yeoman 's work on this . thank you .
